Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

2

Language English

Country United States

State MN

Union AFSCME (American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees) AFL-CIO

Local Locals 3937 & 3801 Council 6

Multiple occupations represented

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency University of Minnesota
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2000

Source

http://www1.umn.edu/ohr/ohrpolicy/Governing/Unit7/

Original_format MS Word (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Millie Volkman, Employee Relations, Office of Human Resources, University of Minnesota, 
phone (612) 625-2327, volkm003@tc.umn.edu

Full text contract begins on following page.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN 

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 

 

 

 

 

AND 

AFSCME LOCALS 3937 & 3801 

COUNCIL 6, AFL-CIO 

EFFECTIVE 

July 1, 1999 Through June 30, 2001 

 
ARTICLE 1 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
ARTICLE 6 
 
ARTICLE 7 
 
ARTICLE 8 
 
ARTICLE 9 
 
ARTICLE 10   
ARTICLE 11   
ARTICLE 12   
ARTICLE 13   
ARTICLE 14   
ARTICLE 15   
ARTICLE 16   
ARTICLE 17   
ARTICLE 18   
ARTICLE 19   
ARTICLE 20   
ARTICLE 21   
ARTICLE 22   
ARTICLE 23   
ARTICLE 24   
ARTICLE 25   
ARTICLE 26   
ARTICLE 27   
ARTICLE 28   
ARTICLE 29   
ARTICLE 30   
ARTICLE 31   
ARTICLE 32   
ARTICLE 33   
ARTICLE 34   
ARTICLE 35   
ARTICLE 36   
APPENDIX A 
APPENDIX B 
APPENDIX C 
APPENDIX D 
APPENDIX E 
APPENDIX F 
 
MOU   
 
MOU   
MOU   
 
 
MOU   
 
MOU   
MOU   
 

2

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
Preamble 
    1 
Recognition   
 
    1 
Labor Management Committees   
    3 
 
Discrimination Prohibition   
    5 
Recruitment And Employment 
 
    7 
 
Temporary Appointments   
    9 
 
 
Probation Period 
  12 
Performance Appraisals 
 
 
  15 
Classification And Reclassification 
  16 
Educational And Career Opportunities 
  18 
 
Child Care 
  19 
 
Hours Of Work 
  19 
Overtime 
 
  23 
Reporting And Call In Time 
  25 
 
 
Holidays 
  26 
 
Vacation 
 
  27 
 
Sick Leave 
 
  29 
 
Leaves Of Absence  
  32 
Salary  
 
 
  35 
 
Insurance 
 
  37 
 
Settlement Of Disputes 
  52 
 
Discipline 
 
  57 
Personnel Records   
 
  60 
 
 
Seniority 
  61 
 
 
Layoff And Recall 
  63 
 
 
Subcontracting 
  69 
Safety  
 
 
  70 
 
Workers’ Compensation 
  72 
 
 
Work Rules   
  73 
 
Union Security 
 
  74 
 
Union Rights  
 
  75 
 
Management Rights 
 
 
Savings 
 
  78 
No Strike/No Lockout 
 
  79 
 
 
Entire Agreement 
  79 
Duration 
 
 
  79 
Discrimination Complaint Information 
  81 
Vacancy Posting 
  83 
Collegiate/Administrative Unit 
  84 
Salary Rate Information 
   
Child Care 
89 
 
 
Alternatives To Layoff 
92 
Union Activist/Supervisor Orientation 
95 
Task Force On Office Ergonomics 
96 
Career Development and Training Advisory Comm.  97 
98 
Vacation Donation   
Semester Conversion 
100 

 
 
 
 
Classification Information   
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

  77 

90 

MOU   
MOU   
Letter   
MOU   

 
 
 
 

Conduct of Union Business 
 
various 
 
PeopleSoft 
Duluth  
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

101 
102 
102 
102 

 

 

 

 

3

ARTICLE 1 

 

PREAMBLE 

 
This Agreement is between the University of Minnesota, (Board of Regents) hereinafter called 
the  "Employer"  or  the  "University"  and  the  American  Federation  of  State,  County  and 
Municipal Employees, Council 6 (AFSCME), and AFSCME Locals 3801 and 3937 hereinafter 
called the "Union." 
 
This Agreement has as its purpose the joint commitment to achieve the University's goals of 
teaching, research, and community service; promotion of harmonious relations between the 
Employer  and  the  Union;  the  establishment  of  an  equitable  and  peaceful  procedure  for  the 
resolution  of  differences;  and  the  expression  of  the  full  and complete understanding of the 
parties pertaining to all terms and conditions of employment. 
 
The  term  "employee"  when  used  hereinafter  in  this  Agreement  shall  refer  to  employees 
represented by the Union in the bargaining unit unless otherwise stated. 
 
The  term  Human  Resources  Department  shall  mean  "appropriate"  Human  Resources 
Department:  coordinate campus, or University  Human Resources Department. 
 
Any  member  of  University  management  referenced  in  this  Agreement  may  specify  a 
designee. 
 
Titles  of  articles, sections and subsections of this Agreement are meant for ease of reading 
and may not be used to interpret or clarify the text of the language. 

 
 

 

ARTICLE 2 

RECOGNITION 

SECTION 1.  UNIT SCOPE 
 
The University recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for employees 
employed in the following classifications whose employment exceeds the lesser of fourteen 
(14) hours per week or 35% of the normal work week and who are employed more than sixty-
seven  (67)  working  days  in  any  calendar  year  (as  specified  in  the  Bureau  of  Mediation 
Services  Certification  Notice,  BMS  Case  No.  93-PCE-1340,  dated  June  15,  1993),  but 
excluding undergraduate students, managerial, supervisory, and confidential employees and 
other employees excluded by Minnesota Statues, 179A.01 - 179A.25). 
 
Class Number 
4901   
 
 
4902   
 
4903   
4904   
 
 
4905   
 
4906   
 
4907   
4908   
 

 
Data Processing Technician 1 
Data Processing Technician 2 
Senior Data Processing Technician 
Principal Data Processing Technician 
Assistant Child Care Teacher 
Junior Applications Programmer 
Applications Programmer 
Child Care Worker 

Class Title 

 

1

4909   
4910   
4911   
4912   
4913   
4914   
4915   
4916   
4917   
4921   
4922   
4925   
4926   
4927   
4928   
4929   
4931   
4932   
4935   
4936   
4938   
4939   
4940   
4941   
4942   
4943   
4944   
4945   
4946   
4949   
4950   
4951 
4959   
4961   
4962   
4964   
4965   
4966   
4967   
4968   
4969   
4970   
4971   
4972   
4974   
4975   
4976   
4978   
4979   
4980   

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Child Care Teacher 
Program Assistant, 4H 
Nutrition Education Assistant  
Community Program Assistant 
Community Health Assistant 
Environmental Health and Safety Technician 
Senior Environmental Health and Safety Technician 
Principal Environmental Health and Safety Technician 
Athletic Coaching Assistant 
Laboratory Animal Care Technician 
Animal Care Technician Specialist/Anesthetist 
Laboratory Services Coordinator 
Research Plot Technician 
Senior Research Plot Technician 
Museum Assistant 
Museum Preparator 
Photographic Laboratory Technician 
Principal Photographic Laboratory Technician 
Artist Model 
Actor Technician 
Production Artist 
Art Research Studio Technician 
Veterinary Technician 
Senior Veterinary Technician 
Telecommunications Systems Technician 
Telecommunications Service Process Technician 
Junior Laboratory Technician 
Senior Laboratory Technician 
Principal Laboratory Technician 
Ophthalmic Technician 
Ophthalmic Technologist 
Information Technology Specialist  
Production Coordinator, University Press 
Engineering Assistant 
Principal Engineering Assistant 
Senior Architectural Drafting Technician 
Dispatcher 
Assistant Communications Technician 
Communications Technician 
Senior Communications Technician 
Communications Equipment Specialist 
Printing Scheduler 
Printing Estimator 
Telecommunication Engineering Technician 
Telecommunication Systems Engineering Technician 
Electronics Technician 
Senior Electronics Technician 
Digital Equipment Service Specialist 
Electromechanical Systems Specialist 
Field Services Engineer 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Assistant Laboratory Machinist 
Laboratory Machinist 
Principal Laboratory Machinist 
Laboratory Machinist Specialist 
Principal Research Shop Foreman 
BSAC Operator/Technician 
Principal Glassblower 
Library Assistant 1 
Library Assistant 2 
Library Assistant 3 
Sign Language Interpreter 
Translator 

4981   
4982   
4983   
4984   
4986   
4988   
4994   
4995   
4996   
4997   
4998   
4999   
 
SECTION 2.  DISPUTES 
 
Unresolved  disputes  over  the  inclusion  or  exclusion  of  new  or  revised  classifications  or 
confidential  status  shall  be  referred  to  the  Minnesota  Bureau  of  Mediation  Services  for 
resolution. 
 
SECTION 3.  EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATION 
 
The  University  will  not  assist  any  other  employee  and/or  labor  organization  which  seeks  to 
bargain over articles covered in this Agreement. 
 
 

ARTICLE 3 

UNIVERSITY LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 
AND OTHER LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES 

 

STATEMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
 
The University and the Union share a belief that many concerns between the parties can be 
resolved through a mutually constructive, cooperative, participative, and either joint problem 
solving  or  joint  decision  making  approach.    The  parties  encourage  managers,  supervisors, 
and employees to resolve concerns in a manner which emphasizes employee involvement.  
Decisions which are reached through this approach will benefit the University, the Union, and 
employees.    In  this  spirit,  the  University  will  provide  appropriate  information,  upon  request, 
and  consider  union  input  during  the  budget  planning  and  organizational  planning  process.  
This statement shall not be grievable nor shall either party use this Section as evidence or 
argument in arbitration. 
 
SECTION 1.  PURPOSE 
 
To  help  promote  a  mutually  constructive  and  cooperative  relationship,  the  parties  agree  to 
establish  that  this  bargaining  unit  shall  participate  in  the  University-wide  joint  Labor 
Management Committee (ULMC) with AFSCME Council 6 and Locals 3260, 3800 and 3937.  
The Committee shall have the following specific objectives: 
 
A. 
 

Foster communication between the parties; 

 

3

Serve as a forum to discuss issues of mutual concern; 

B. 
 
C.  Work  to  build  consensus  for  joint  problem  solving  and  planning  where  the  parties 

recognize it is best to have a shared position; 

Assess the need, if any, for sub-committees of this Committee and/or additional labor 
management committees at the collegiate or equivalent administrative level; 

Promote and support the creation of additional labor management committees;  

Inform and educate the University community about the concept and benefits of labor 
management partnership; 

Communicate and share the activities of the Committee with the University community; 
and 

 
D. 

 
E. 
 
F. 

 
G. 

 
H. 

Make recommendations to the appropriate University bodies and monitor the progress 
of such actions. 

 
SECTION 2.  AUTHORITY 
 
Labor management committees will have no authority to modify the terms of the Agreement 
between  the  parties.    Disputes  over  alleged  contract  violations  should  be  pursued  through 
Article 21, Settlement of Disputes.  
 
When a recommendation is reached by any of the committees, it shall be forwarded to the 
appropriate  administrative  level  with  recommendation  that  the  appropriate  administrative 
designee(s) consider it for implementation. 
 
SECTION 3.  MEMBERSHIP 
 
The  Union  and  the  University  shall  each  be  permitted  eight  (8)  representatives  on  the 
Committee.  The Union and the University will each designate one member to  serve as co-
chair.  The co-chairs, along with other Committee Members, will carry out all functions of the 
Committee, plan the agenda and arrange meeting dates and times. 
 
SECTION 4.  MEETINGS 
 
The Committee shall meet monthly or as the Union and University mutually agree.  Members 
may attend meetings during regular business hours after providing reasonable notification to 
their  supervisors.    Any  paid  time  shall  be  subject  to  the  paid  time  provisions  of  Article  31.     
However,  the  University  shall  have  no  obligation  to  reimburse  employees  for  related 
expenses.  Committee  meetings  will  usually  be  held  on  University  property  unless  the 
Committee agrees to other accommodations. 
 
SECTION 5.  ACTIVITIES 
 
Among other activities that Committee members may mutually agree to pursue, Committee 
members will pursue the following: 
 

4

 

A plan to encourage schools/colleges, or equivalent administrative units, to establish 
their  own  local  committees.    Such  committees  shall  be  established  when  there  is  a 
joint  request  from  the  union  and  the  employer  in  the  area.    Those  units  electing  to 
establish  local  committees  will  determine  an  appropriate  mix  and  number  of 
participants  and  may  seek  advice  from  the  ULMC  in  establishing  and  facilitating 
committee operation. 

A plan for joint training of supervisors and stewards on the contract. 

A  plan  for  the  union's  consultation  in  the  planning  and  budgeting  process  of  the 
University  comparable  to  opportunities  for  consultation  available  to  other  employee 
groups. 

 
Upon  written  request  by  the  Union,  the  University  will  provide  readily  available  data  to  the 
Union regarding the number of University employees in various categories of employment and 
the  Human  Resources  Department  will  meet  with  the  Union  to  discuss  the  information 
provided. 
 

A. 

 
B. 
 
C. 

 

ARTICLE 4 

DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITION  

 
STATEMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
 
The University of Minnesota and the Union are committed to recognizing and acknowledging 
the  healthy  and  positive  diversity  that  we  have  on  the  University  campuses.    Further,  the 
parties  recognize  that  all  employees  have  the  right  to  work  in  a  productive  environment  in 
which there is no verbal or physical intimidation, or discrimination or harassment based on 
the  criteria  provided  in  Section  1,  Discrimination  Prohibition,  and  Section  2,  Sexual 
Harassment.    It  is  in  this  spirit  that  the  parties  agree  to  the  provisions  of  this  Article.    This 
statement  shall  not  be  grievable  nor  shall  either  party  use  this  Section  as  evidence  or 
argument in arbitration. 
 
SECTION 1.  DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITION 
 
Discrimination  on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  creed  or  religion,  sex  (including  sexual 
harassment),  marital  status,  affectional  preference  and/or  sexual  orientation,  public 
assistance  status,  disability,  age,  national  origin,  veteran  status,  or  political  opinions,  is 
prohibited. The Union shall share equally with the University the responsibility for applying this 
provision of the Agreement. 
 
SECTION 2.  SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
 
The parties agree that all employees have a right to a workplace free from sexual harassment. 
The  Union  recognizes  its  responsibility  to  assist  in  maintaining  a  workplace  free  of  sexual 
harassment. Whether sexual harassment has occurred will be determined in each situation. 
For  purposes  of  illustration  and  example  only,  the  definition  contained  in  the  Equal 
Employment  Opportunity  Commission  guidelines,  the  1984  "Policy  Statement  on  Sexual 
Harassment," defines sexual harassment as follows: 
 

 

5

Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct 
of  a  sexual  nature  constitutes  sexual  harassment  when  (1)  submission  to  such  conduct  is 
made  either  explicitly  or  implicitly  a  term  or  condition  of  an  individual's  employment  or 
academic  advancement;  (2)  submission  to  or  rejection  of  such  conduct  by  an  individual  is 
used as the basis for employment decisions or academic decisions affecting such individual; 
(3)  such  conduct  has  the  purpose  or  effect  of  unreasonably  interfering  with  an  individual's 
work  or  academic  performance  or  creating  an  intimidating,  hostile,  or  offensive working or 
academic environment. 
 
SECTION 3.  UNION ACTIVITY 
 
The  Union  and  the  University  agree  not  to  interfere  with  the  rights  of  employees  under  the 
Public  Employment  Labor  Relations  Act.    There  shall  be  no  discrimination,  interference, 
restraint, or coercion by the Employer against any employee because of union activity or lack 
of  activity  or  Union  membership  or  refusal  to  join  the  Union.  The  Union  recognizes  its 
responsibility  as  bargaining  representative  and  agrees  to  represent  all  employees  in  the 
bargaining unit without discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion and without regard to 
union activity or lack of union activity or Union membership or refusal to join the Union. 
 
SECTION 4.  NEPOTISM 
 
Relatives may work for the University provided there is no immediate supervisory relationship 
or  substantive  administrative  relationship.    Relatives  include:    (1)  by  blood  or  adoptive 
relationship:  parents,  grandparents,  children,  grandchildren,  brothers,  sisters:  or  (2)  by 
marriage relationship: husbands, wives, brothers- or sisters-in-law, fathers- or mothers-in-law, 
sons- or daughters-in-law, stepparents, stepchildren or (3) by registered domestic partnership: 
registered same sex domestic partners, brothers or sisters of registered same sex domestic 
partners, fathers or mothers of registered same sex domestic partners, sons or daughters of 
registered same sex domestic partner. 
 
Any employee who has passed an initial probationary period and who is required to resign 
from  a  position  in  order  to  comply  with  this  selection  shall  have  rights  to  the  layoff  list  as 
though the employee had been laid off.  Any employee still serving a probationary period shall 
be discharged from the position if necessary to comply with this selection. 
 
The  parties  agree  that issues of nepotism are appropriately discussed in a meet and confer 
situation where the issue arises, or at the ULMC on policy issues. 
 
SECTION 5.  POLITICAL ACTIVITY 
 
No  employee  shall  be  required  to  pay  or  be  allowed  to  solicit  or  receive  any  assessment, 
contribution,  or  subscription  for  political  purposes  whatsoever  during  work  hours.    No 
employee  shall  directly  or  indirectly  use  the  employee's  authority  or  official  influence  to 
compel  any  employee  to  apply  for  membership  in  or  become  a  member  of  any  political 
organization; or to pay or promise to pay any assessment, subscription, or contribution; or to 
take part in any political activity. 
 
SECTION 6.  COMPLAINT PROCEDURES 
 

6

 

Upon  request,  the  University  will  make  available  to  employees  copies  of  the  various  non-
discrimination and Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action (EEO/AA) policies. 
 
Information on University discrimination complaint procedures, which are also the vehicle for 
sexual harassment complaints, is included in Appendix A. 
 
Should  an  employee  decide  to  grieve  alleged  discrimination  or  sexual  harassment  through 
Article 21, Settlement of Disputes, the employee shall not have the right to use the University 
complaint procedure on the alleged violation in question.  Should an employee decide to use 
the University procedure, then the employee shall not have the right to grieve using Article 21 
of the Agreement on the alleged violation in question. 

 

ARTICLE 5 

RECRUITMENT AND EMPLOYMENT 

 
SECTION 1.  VACANCY POSTING 
 
When the Employer determines there  is a continuing or temporary vacancy to be filled, the 
hiring Department shall submit a personnel requisition to the appropriate Human Resources 
Department. 
 
Announcements of vacancies shall be posted on the official bulletin boards of the appropriate 
Human  Resources  Department  and  shall  include  cross  campus  postings  as  feasible.    The 
posting shall state the first day of listing, shall remain open for applications from the first day it 
is  officially  posted  for  at  least  seven  (7)  calendar  days  and  shall  state  the  date  at  which 
bargaining  unit  consideration  ends.    The  appropriate  Human  Resources  Department  shall 
provide copies of postings to the Union.  In addition, the appropriate supervisor(s) shall notify 
bargaining unit employees in the department, by means of the supervisor's choosing, when a 
bargaining  unit  vacancy  in  the  department  is  to  be  posted.    Disputes  regarding  supervisory 
notification  may  be  grieved  under  Article  21  but  remedies  shall  not  require  reversal  of  the 
hiring decision. 
 
Postings shall include, at least, the classification, campus and work location of the job, salary 
and/or salary range, shift and hours of work, whether overtime or consecutive Sunday work 
are  conditions  of  employment,  a  summary  of  the  duties  and  essential  qualifications  for the 
job, as determined by the Employer.  There shall be no essential qualifications which require 
four year or greater college degrees for vacancies in the bargaining unit. 
 
SECTION 2.  APPLICATION 
 
Employees shall apply by submitting official application materials to the appropriate Human 
Resources Department or, when the option is available, by notifying the appropriate Human 
Resources Department that they wish a current application already on file to be considered 
for  a  particular  vacancy.    The  application, to be considered for the posted position, must be 
received in the appropriate Human Resources Department by the close of the business day of 
the last day of the posting period. 
 
Within  a  reasonable  time  after  receiving  and  evaluating  an  employee's  application  for  a 
vacancy, if it is determined the employee is not qualified for the position, the employee shall 
be notified of the results of the evaluation. 

 

7

 
An  employee  may  not  apply  or  be  considered  for  promotion  to  a  vacant  position  during  an 
initial  probationary  period  unless  that  is  by  an  employer  initiated  action.    Employees  in  an 
initial  probationary  period  may  be  promoted  as  the  result  of  an  employer  supported  job 
reclassification. 
 
SECTION 3.  APPLICANT HIRING 
 
Hiring of applicants who apply for vacancies and who have been certified by the Employer as 
meeting the qualifications for a vacancy and as meeting the measurable, job related selection 
criteria as applied by the Department shall be in the following order: 
 
A. 

An employee who has received a layoff notice and has not yet been laid off, who has 
requested  in  writing  to  be  placed  on  the  layoff  list  and  has  submitted  an  updated 
application to the appropriate Human Resources Department, shall have a right to any 
vacant  position  within  his/her  applicable definition of layoff per Article 25, Layoff and 
Recall, Section 3A-D, for which s/he has passed probation, is qualified, as determined 
by the Employer, and meets the measurable, job related selection criteria, as applied 
by the Department in order of University Seniority (see Article 24, Seniority). 

 
B. 

 
 
 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

8

Any  employee  or  former  employee  on  the  layoff  list  who  has  submitted  an  updated 
application  has  a  right  of  recall  to  the  Department  in  which  layoff  occurred  if  the 
Department has a vacancy in a classification from which the employee was laid off, or 
a vacancy in a lower class in the related series from which the employee was laid off  
within his/her applicable definition of layoff per Article 25, Layoff and Recall, Section 
3A-D, for which the employee  is qualified as determined by the Employer and meets 
the measurable, job related selection criteria in order of University Seniority as applied 
by the Department. 

For additional information regarding related class series, see Appendix F, page 167. 

Any former employee whose name appears on the layoff list and who has submitted 
an updated application to the appropriate Human Resources Department shall have a 
right to any vacant position within his/her applicable definition of layoff per Article 25, 
Layoff and Recall, Section 3A-D, for which s/he has passed probation and is qualified 
as  determined  by  the  Employer,  and  meets  the  measurable,  job  related  selection 
criteria, as applied by the Department, in order of University Seniority (see Article 24, 
Seniority). 

An  employee  who  has  passed  an  initial  probation  with  the  University  and  who  has 
been  determined  to  be  disabled  according  to  the  provisions  of  the  Americans  with 
Disabilities Act (ADA) and is unable to return to his/her former position because of the 
disability  but  is  now  certified  to  return  to  other  employment  shall  have  a  right  to  any 
vacant position within his/her applicable definition of layoff per Article 25, Layoff and 
Recall,  Section  3  A-D for which s/he is qualified as determined by the Employer and 
meets the measurable, job related selection criteria as applied by the Department. 

An  employee  who  has  passed  an  initial  probation  with  the  University  and  who  has 
been injured on the job and is unable to return to his/her former position because of the 
injury but is now certified to return to other employment shall have a right to any vacant 

 

position within his/her applicable definition of layoff per Article 25, Layoff and Recall, 
Section 3A-D for which s/he is qualified as determined by the Employer and meets the 
measurable, job related selection criteria as applied by the Department. 

 
SECTION 4.  APPLICATION CONSIDERATION 
 
Applicants who apply for vacancies and who have been certified by the Employer as meeting 
the  qualifications  and  measurable,  job  related  selection  criteria  for  a  vacancy  shall  be 
considered in the following order: 
 

The  two  (2)  most  senior  employees  by  University  Seniority  who  have  applied  for  a 
vacancy in the bargaining unit within seven (7) calendar days of the posting  following 
the procedures above, and who are qualified as determined by the Employer, and meet 
the measurable, job related selection criteria as applied by the Department, shall be 
offered the opportunity to interview for the vacancy  

A. 

 
B 

All other applicants. 

 
 

ARTICLE 6 

TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS 

 
SECTION 1.  HIRING PROCEDURES 
 
An  individual  who  is  interviewed  for  a  temporary  or  supplemental  appointment  shall  be 
informed  of  the  nature  of  the  position  as  described  below.  Temporary  or  supplemental 
appointments do not have the same rights and benefits as continuing appointments. 
 
At  the  time  of  hire,  an  employee  on  a  temporary  or  supplemental  appointment  shall  be 
notified in writing of the temporary or supplemental nature of his/her position.  The notification 
shall include the duration of the appointment and shall be given to the employee with a copy 
to the appropriate Human Resources Department. Upon request, the Union shall be provided 
a  list  of  employees  on  temporary  posted  and  temporary  no  post  positions,  including  the 
employees’ work locations and length of service in the temporary position. 
 
SECTION  2.    DETERMINATION  OF  TEMPORARY  POSITIONS.  If at the time a position is 
filled and the work is expected to last more than three (3) years, the job will be posted and 
filled as a continuing position.  Items that will be taken into consideration will include: 
 
 

A. The history of the work of the position; 
B. The job series in which the duties have been performed; 
C. Whether substantive changes have been made in the duties and responsibilities of 
the position. 

 
SECTION 3.  TYPES OF APPOINTMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RIGHTS 
 
A. 
 

Supplemental Positions. 

1. 

Definition:    Supplemental  positions  are  those  positions  which  are  hourly 
positions with no designated percentage appointment, recognized under Article 

 

9

 
2. 

 

2,  Recognition,  Section  1.    These  employees  work  schedules  which  are 
variable, intermittent, or on call. 

Rights:    An  employee  with  this  type  of  appointment  shall  not  have  the  same 
rights as an employee on a Temporary (Section 2B) or continuing appointment.  
A supplemental employee may be terminated at any time.  Such an employee: 

a. 
b. 

c. 
d. 
e. 

does not serve probation; 
does not accrue seniority, unless s/he is appointed to a temporary posted 
or continuing position within four (4) months of his/her last day of work of 
a calendar month in which the employee has worked at least 35% of the 
full time hours available, in which case seniority shall be credited for the 
hours worked in the supplemental position back to the date of hire, or the 
employee  moves  to  a  supplemental  position  from  a  continuing  or 
temporary  posted  position,  and  then  returns  to  a  continuing  or  posted 
temporary position, in which case seniority shall be credited for the hours 
worked in the supplemental position. 
does not have just cause rights; 
does not have layoff rights;  
does not accrue vacation/sick leave or other benefits. 

Temporary Posted 

1. 

 
2. 
 

Definition:  Temporary  posted  positions  are  posted  positions  with  a  designated 
percentage  appointment  of  36%  or  greater  and  a  set  term  with  an  expected 
duration of three (3) years. 

Extensions 

A Temporary posted appointment may be extended beyond one (1) year without 
posting where such an extension is a result of continuing disability, pregnancy 
leave,  or  other  approved  leaves  of  absence  where  the  Employer  expects  the 
return  of  the  employee  holding  the  original  appointment.    Otherwise,  if  a 
Temporary (posted) appointment is extended beyond one (1) year the position 
must be posted either as a Temporary (posted) or as a continuing position.  

3.   Rights 

 
An employee with this type of appointment is hired for a maximum of three (3) 
years at  36% time or greater on a set percentage time appointment and shall 
not have the same rights as an employee on a continuing appointment.  These 
positions  must  be  posted  in  accordance  with  Article  5,  Recruitment  and 
Employment.  If a temporary posted position extends beyond three (3) years the 
employee shall become continuing without posting the position.  (Applications of 
Temporary  (posted)  appointments  occur  in  Article  25,  Layoff  and  Recall,  and 
Article  7,  Probation.)    Based  on  the  percentage  of  the  appointment  such  an 
employee: 

36% - 49% 

a. 

does not receive health insurance; 

 

 

 
B. 
 

 

10

b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 

f. 
g. 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 

 
50% - 74% 

75% - 100% 

f. 
g. 
 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 

f. 
g. 
 

does not accrue vacation and sick leave; 
does not have bumping rights; 
does have just cause  rights once probation is passed; 
does have layoff list and recall rights within applicable definition of 
layoff and  appointment type after passing probation; 
does serve a probationary period; 
does accrue seniority. 

does not receive health insurance, but employee may self-pay; 
does not accrue vacation and sick leave until two years of service; 
does not have bumping rights; 
does have just cause rights once probation is passed; 
does have layoff list and recall rights within applicable definition of 
layoff and appointment type after passing probation; 
does serve a probationary period; 
does accrue seniority. 

does not have bumping rights 
does receive health insurance; 
does accrue vacation and sick leave; 
does have just cause rights once probation is passed; 
does have layoff list and recall rights within applicable definition of 
layoff and appointment type after passing probation; 
does serve a probationary period; 
does accrue seniority. 

C. 

Temporary No Post 
 
1. 

 
2. 
 

 

3. 
 

Definition:    Temporary  no-post  positions  are  positions  of  36%  time  or  greater 
which do not have a set term and are expected to be six (6) months or less in 
duration. 

Extensions 

If a Temporary (no post) appointment is extended beyond six (6) months, unless 
the extension is due to continuing disability, pregnancy leave, or other approved 
leaves  of  absence  where  the  Employer  expects  the  return  of  the  employee 
holding  the  original  appointment,  the  position  must  be  posted  either  as  a 
Temporary  (posted)  or  as  a  continuing  position.    If  the  individual  hired  for  a 
posted  position  is  the  individual  who  served  in  the  initial  position,  s/he  shall 
begin a probationary period upon the second date of hire and shall be granted 
seniority  retroactive  from  the  date  of  initial  hire  into  the  Temporary  (no  post) 
position upon successful completion of a six (6) month probationary period. 

Rights 

An  employee  with  this  type  of  appointment  is  hired  for  a  maximum  of six (6)  
months or less for 36% or greater time on a set percentage time appointment 

 

11

 

 

 

and shall not have the same rights as an employee on a Temporary (posted) or 
continuing  appointment.  Such  an  employee  may  be  terminated  at  any  time.  
Based on the percentage of the appointment, such an employee: 

36% - 49% 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 

does not serve probation; 
does not accrue seniority; 
does not have just cause rights; 
does not have layoff rights. 
does not receive health insurance; 
does not accrue vacation or sick leave; 
does not have bumping rights. 

50% - 74% 

75% - 100% 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 
 

a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 

does not serve probation; 
does not accrue seniority; 
does not have just cause rights; 
does not have layoff rights. 
does not receive health insurance, but employee may self-pay; 
does not accrue vacation or sick leave; 
does not have bumping rights. 

does not serve probation; 
does not accrue seniority; 
does not have just cause rights; 
does not have layoff rights. 
does not have bumping rights. 
does receive health insurance; 
does accrue vacation and sick leave. 

 

ARTICLE 7 

PROBATIONARY PERIOD 

 
SECTION 1.  INTENT OF PROBATION 
 
Each  employee  selected  to  fill  a  vacancy  for  a  continuing  position  or  a  temporary  posted 
position  shall  serve  a  probationary  period  which  is an extension of the selection procedure.  
The intent of probation is to give the employee an opportunity to demonstrate his/her ability to 
perform the duties of the position. 
 
A Department Head may decide to waive an employee's probationary period requirement with 
written  notice  to  the  employee,  if  the  employee  is  hired  to  a  formerly  held  classification  in 
which s/he has previously passed probation in the Department. 
 
Any  absences  without  pay  shall  automatically  extend  the  probationary  period.    Absence 
covered  by  Workers'  Compensation  will  not  count  towards  completion  of  the  probationary 
period. 
 
12

 

SECTION 2.  SIX MONTH PROBATIONARY PERIOD 
 
A  probationary  period  of  six  (6)  months  shall  be  served  by  every  employee  hired  in  any 
continuing or temporary posted position on an original appointment, promotion, or demotion; 
and  shall  be  successfully  completed  before  the  employee  can  be  given  a  continuing 
appointment.  A probationary period of employment of six (6) months shall be served by an 
employee  who  1)  transfers in the same class between Collegiate/Administrative Units or 2) 
transfers to a different class. 
 
Should an employee be promoted, including a promotion by reclassification, from a position 
in  which  he/she  is  serving  probation  to  a  position  in  a  higher  classification  in  the  same 
department  prior  to  completion  of  the  probation,  and  the  employee  subsequently  passes 
probation  in  the  higher  class,  the  employee  shall  also  be  considered  to  have  passed 
probation in the class from which he/she was promoted. 
 
SECTION 3.  FOUR MONTH PROBATION 
 
A  four  (4)  month  probationary  period  shall  be  required  of  an  employee  who  has  already 
passed probation in that class in the following situations: 
 
A. 

If  the  employee  transfers  or  bumps  to  a  class  in  which  s/he  has  previously  passed 
probation but in a different Department in the same Collegiate/Administrative Unit. 

If  the  employee  is  rehired  from  the  layoff  list  to  a  class  in  which  s/he  has  previously 
passed probation but not in the rehiring Department. 

 
SECTION 4.  NO PROBATIONARY PERIOD 
 
No subsequent probationary period shall be required of an employee who: 
 
A. 
 
B. 

Is assigned to a different position in the same classification, same Department; 

Bumps  back  into  any  classification  in  which  the  employee  has  previously  passed 
probation in the same Department; 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 
 
E. 

 
F. 

Is rehired off the layoff list to the same Department in any classification in which s/he 
has passed probation in the Department; 

Is recalled following layoff to the same classification, same Department; 

Is  reclassified  in  the  position  currently  occupied  and  in  which  position  the  employee 
has passed probation. 

Has been serving in a temporary posted position in which s/he passed probation and is 
hired for that position when it is re-posted. 

 
SECTION 5.  PROBATIONARY REVIEWS AND RATING 
 
During  the  probationary  period,  the  supervisor  shall  conduct  a  minimum  of  one  (1) 
performance  appraisal  of  the  employee's  work  performance  at  the  approximate  midpoint  of 

 

13

the  probationary  period,  discuss  it  with  the  employee,  furnish  the  employee  with  a  written 
copy of the evaluation, and provide a copy to the appropriate Human Resources Department.  
The appraisal shall be based on the job description provided (see Article 9, Section 1.) 
 
Failure to provide the above appraisal(s) does not mean the employee passes probation, nor 
does  such  failure  extend  the  period  of  probation.    There  is  no  obligation  to  provide  a 
performance appraisal if the employee is terminated before the approximate midpoint of the 
probationary  period.    An  employee on probation may be terminated at any point during the 
probationary period.  An employee who is not on an initial probationary period may have rights 
to a prior position.  (See Section 6 below.) 
 
SECTION 6.  TERMINATION OF PROBATION 
 
If  the  Department  Head or immediate supervisor determines during the probationary period 
that the employee will not pass probation, the employee shall be given written confirmation 
with a copy to the appropriate Human Resources Department. 
 
New hires (original appointments) who fail to pass probation shall be discharged.  Employees 
serving a subsequent probationary period shall be given fourteen (14) calendar days notice of 
failure to pass probation.  In both an initial and subsequent probationary period, an employee 
does not pass probation if s/he is notified in writing of failure to pass probation before the end 
of the probationary period. 
 
Failure to pass probation may not be grieved.  An employee who fails to pass probation may 
allege a violation of Article 4, Discrimination Prohibition, and may proceed only through Step 
3 of Article 21, Settlement of Disputes. 
 
An employee who does not pass probation in a position within or outside the bargaining unit 
but has held a prior continuing position shall have the right to return  to the prior continuing 
position,  if  it  exists,  to  the  extent  permissible  under  the  governing  terms  and  conditions  of 
employment  in  the  bargaining  unit  where  the  prior  continuing  position  resides.    Before  an 
employee can return to the prior continuing position, the employee must first take a vacancy 
in the class to which the employee would return, as provided in Article 5, Section 3A.  If there 
is no vacancy for which the employee qualifies and can go to based on his/her seniority, then 
the employee may bump the individual occupying the prior continuing position provided that:  
(1)  she/he  has  more  University  seniority  than  the  individual  in  the  position;  and  (2)  the 
individual occupying the prior continuing position has not passed probation in the position.  If 
there  is  no  vacancy  or  if  the  employee  can  not  bump  as  provided  above,  the  returning 
employee  shall  go  on  the  layoff  list.    Any  employee  about  to  be  bumped  because  of  this 
provision shall receive seven (7) calendar days notice. 
 
This  return  must  happen  within  fourteen  (14)  calendar  days  after  notifying  the  Department 
Head in charge of the prior continuing position, provided the employee: 
 
A. 

Has  successfully  completed  the  probationary  period  for  the  prior  continuing  position; 
and 

 
B.  Was promoted or transferred from the prior continuing position; and 
 

14

 

C. 

Notifies  the  prior  Department  Head  in  writing  by  the  termination  date  of  the  currently 
held probationary position of the intent to return to the prior continuing position. 

 
The prior continuing position  referred to is the continuing position an employee last held and 
in which the employee successfully passed probation before being transferred or promoted to 
the position requiring the probationary period if probation was required. 
 
If the prior continuing  position exists, and the employee chooses to return to it in accordance 
with the above, the employee may be placed on a leave of absence without pay and/or use 
accrued  compensatory  time  and/or  accrued  vacation  credit  during  the  fourteen  (14)  day 
period.  Compensatory time shall be paid at the rate earned; vacation pay shall be at the rate 
of the lower position.  Use of paid time does not mean the employee has passed probation; 
and does not extend the period of probation. 
 
If  an  employee's  prior  continuing  position  no  longer  exists  (has  been  abolished  or 
reclassified),  or  if  the  employee  chooses  not  to  return,  the  employee  shall  notify  the 
appropriate  Human  Resources  Department  of  his/her  intent  to  be  placed  on  the  layoff  list.   
S/he must give notification in writing to the appropriate Human Resources Department on or 
before the anticipated date of discharge from the probationary position. 
 
A probationary employee who is discharged from the University for disciplinary reasons shall 
forfeit rights to return to the prior position or to the layoff list. 
 
 

ARTICLE 8 

PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS 

 
STATEMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
 
The University and the Union share a belief that the purposes of the performance appraisal 
system  include  the  following:    to  clarify  both  management's  goals  for  the  position  and  the 
employee's  goals;  to  monitor  the  employee's  achievements  and  any  areas  of  needed 
improvement;  to  facilitate  communication  between  supervisors  and  employees  about  the 
employee's  job  duties  and  establish  a  framework  for  open,  constructive  feedback;  to 
encourage and develop plans for employee development and growth.  This statement shall 
not be grievable nor shall either party use this Section as evidence or argument in arbitration. 
 
Section 1  EMPLOYEE APPRAISALS 
 
Performance appraisals for each employee shall be submitted at least once each year using 
either  a  standard  University  evaluation  form  or  one  that  is  an  approved  substitute  for  that 
standard form. 
 
Employees shall be evaluated by their appropriate administrator/supervisor.  Employees shall 
be  given  a  minimum  of  three  (3)  work  days  notice  prior  to  the  evaluation  meeting.    If  a 
performance review meeting becomes disciplinary in nature in the employee's judgment, the 
employee shall have the right to adjourn the meeting and reschedule it with a union steward 
present. 
 

 

15

At the time of such appraisal, the employee's specific job description, job duties, appraisal 
standards,  and  performance  shall  be  reviewed  by  both  the  employee  and  the  supervisor  to 
discuss patterns of performance for the past year and expectations for the upcoming year.   
 
Each employee has the right to add written comments regarding the performance appraisal 
on  the  performance  appraisal  form,  at  the  time  of  any  review,  and  subsequently  if  any 
changes  are  made.    The employee's signature on the performance appraisal form signifies 
that  the  performance  appraisal  has  been  reviewed  with  the  employee,  but  does  not  signify 
that the employee agrees with the appraisal. 
 
Each  employee  shall  have  the  right  to  see  any  changes,  deletions,  or  additions  to  the 
performance  appraisal  made  by  the  immediate  supervisor,  a  higher  supervisor,  department 
head, or administrator.  Such changes shall be discussed with the employee.  The employee 
shall be provided with copies of the completed performance appraisal. 
 
The  performance  appraisal  shall  be  placed  in  the  employee's  official  personnel  file.    Any 
appraisals  which  are  not  in  the  official  file  shall  not  be  part  of  the  official  record  of  the 
employee in considering discipline or future performance reviews.  Employees have the right 
to review their official personnel files upon request per Article 23, Personnel Records. 
 
A  referral  to  employee  assistance  programs  shall  not  be  referenced  on  a  performance 
appraisal  or  evaluation,  nor  shall  supervisors use the performance appraisal as a substitute 
for disciplinary action as defined in Article 22. 

 
 

ARTICLE 9 

CLASSIFICATION AND RECLASSIFICATION 

 
SECTION 1.  CLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS 
 
The University shall classify and/or reclassify all positions in the bargaining unit according to 
the  nature  and  difficulty  of  duties  assigned  to  and  performed  by  the  employee  based  on  a 
current and accurate job description and shall assign to each position in the bargaining unit a 
classification title, number, and salary range. 
 
An employee new to his/her position will receive a copy of his/her job description upon hire.  
The appropriate administrator/supervisor will review the description with the employee. 
 
in  determining  classifications  and  reclassifications,  such  as  class 
Materials  used 
specifications  and  reclassification  interpretation  manuals,  shall  be  readily  available  to  the 
Union and employees on request. 
 
SECTION 2.  RECLASSIFICATION 
 
The  employee  may  submit,  through  supervisory  and  administrative  channels,  a  properly 
completed 
tasks,  duties,  and 
responsibilities  of  the  position  are  caused  by  reorganization  of  work,  new  staffing 
requirements, technology, or when s/he believes his/her position is inappropriately classified.  
Such requests may be submitted no more than twice per fiscal year, unless the employee's 

job  evaluation  questionnaire  when  changes 

in 

the 

16

 

supervisor or the Human Resources Department agree a new job evaluation questionnaire is 
warranted. 
 
SECTION 3.  JOB EVALUATION QUESTIONNAIRE TIMELINES 
 
The supervisor, Department Head, and Dean shall have thirty (30) calendar days to complete 
and forward a job evaluation questionnaire to the appropriate Human Resources Department.  
A supervisor cannot change or require the employee to change the employee's responses on 
a job evaluation questionnaire.  At the request of the employee, the supervisor shall discuss 
any changes to the JEQ with the employee.  Once the JEQ has been finalized for scoring, a 
copy  shall  be  forwarded  to  the  employee  which  identifies the changes and the person who 
made the changes. 
 
Upon receipt of a completed job evaluation questionnaire, the appropriate Human Resources 
Department shall complete a review of the position, and render a decision on the request in 
writing to the employee, the Department, and the Union within forty-five (45) calendar days. 
 
If  the  employee  does  not  agree  with  the  decision,  he/she  may  request  in  writing  within 
fourteen (14) calendar days the scoring of his/her responses on the JEQ.  If after receipt of 
both  scores,  the  employee  requests  in  writing  to  be  interviewed  by  the  Human  Resources 
Department, he/she will be interviewed.  During such an interview with the Human Resources 
Department  and  the  Department  involving  reclassification  issues,  and  any  mutually agreed 
subsequent  follow  up  meetings,  an  employee  shall  have  the  right  to  have  a  Union  staff 
representative or JEQ Task Force member present or, on the coordinate campuses, another 
mutually  agreed  Union  representative  may  be  present,  upon  request.    Employee  union 
representatives shall participate in such meetings on unpaid leave time.  
 
SECTION 4.  APPEAL OF JOB EVALUATION QUESTIONNAIRE 
 
The decision of the Human Resources Department may be appealed by the employee within 
forty five (45) calendar days of receiving the decision.  Appeals must be made in writing to the 
appropriate  Human  Resources  Department.    The  classification  appeal  process  provided  in 
this  Section  is  the  sole  and  exclusive  process  for  the  appeal  of  classification  and 
reclassification actions. 
 
A classification appeal hearing will be convened no later than thirty (30) calendar days from 
the date the appeal was received.  A neutral party mutually agreed to by the Union and the 
University,  will  hear  the  classification  appeal.    If  the  scores  of  the  administration  and  the 
employee do not agree after information from the interview has been evaluated, both scorings 
shall be presented to the neutral party.  The neutral party will issue a decision no later than 
thirty (30) calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing.  The decision of neutral party is 
final.   
 
SECTION 5.  RECLASSIFICATION EFFECTIVE DATE 
 
The  reclassification  of  any  position  shall  normally  be  made  effective  on  the  first  day  of  the 
payroll  period  after  receipt  of  a  properly  completed  job  evaluation  questionnaire  by  the 
appropriate Human Resources Department, or in cases where the form has been delayed in 
coming to the appropriate Human Resources Department, on the first day of the payroll period 

 

17

following the sixteenth work day after submission of the completed form by the employee to 
the supervisor.  
 
Reclassifications resulting in a demotion and a reduction in salary will be made effective on 
the  first  day  of  the  payroll  period  following  notification  of  the  decision  by  the  appropriate 
Human Resources Department to both the employee and the Union. 
 
Departments must comply with the appropriate Human Resources Manager's decision, or the 
decision of an appeal, within twenty (20) work days after receipt of the written notice of the 
decision. 
 
SECTION 6. PERIODIC SURVEY 
 
If  the  employer  requires  a  review  of  a  position  in  the  bargaining  unit,  the  review  shall  be 
submitted  as  a  Periodic  Survey  using  a  job  evaluation  questionnaire.  Employees  whose 
positions  are  being  reviewed  shall  be  informed  of  the  reason  for  the  review.    If  the 
employee(s) desire to have a meeting with the supervisor about the Periodic Survey, such a 
meeting shall be held. 
 
Once a job evaluation questionnaire has been finalized for scoring, a copy shall be forwarded 
to the affected employee(s). If such a Periodic Survey appears likely to result in a demotion, 
upon  the  request  of  the  employee,  an  on  site  audit  of  the  position  shall  be  conducted  by 
Human  Resources.  Changes  in  classification  resulting  from  Periodic  Surveys  will become 
effective on the first day of the payroll period mutually agreed to by the appropriate Human 
Resources Department and the Department.  However, no demotions as a result of a Periodic 
Survey shall be retroactive. 
 
If an employee is demoted as a result of a Periodic Survey, the employee shall be entitled to 
have his/her name placed on the layoff list for the class from which he/she was demoted. 
 
Periodic  Survey  decisions  may  be  appealed  by  the  employee  within  fourteen  (14)  calendar 
days  after  receiving  the  decision.  Periodic  Survey  appeals  must  be  made  in  writing  to  the 
appropriate Human Resources Department.  Appeals shall follow the procedures identified in 
Section 4 above. 

 
 

ARTICLE 10  

EDUCATIONAL AND CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 

 
Section 1.  PURPOSE 
 
Employees shall be allowed the opportunity, within the limits of this Agreement, to continue 
their  education,  improve  their  performance  and  expand  their  promotional  possibilities  by 
taking courses. 
 
Section 2.  WORK RELATED EDUCATION 
 
If an employee is required by the Employer to take a course, attend conferences, seminars, 
workshops,  professional  and  scientific  meetings  or  training  as  a  condition  of  continuing 
employment, the Employer shall pay for the course and the time attending shall be treated as 
18

 

paid  work  time  and  associated  expenses  shall  be  reimbursed  in  accordance  with  existing 
University policy.  Employees shall be granted paid time off to be trained in new technology or 
equipment required in the employee's current job. 
 
Employees  attending  conferences,  seminars,  workshops,  professional  and  scientific 
meetings  or  training  shall  be  compensated  for  attendance  and  travel  time  in  conformance 
with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). 
 
The  appropriate  administrator/supervisor  has  the  discretion  to  determine whether a leave of 
absence with pay will be granted for: 
 
A. 

Attendance at conferences, seminars, workshops, professional and scientific meetings 
and other approved educational activities. 

for  additional 

time 

Educational leave during work hours for not more than four (4) hours per week (or more 
if  make-up  schedule 
the  appropriate 
administrator/supervisor)  to  be  used  for  such  purpose  as  attending  class  at  the 
University of Minnesota.  Proposals to use flexible hours to make up the time and work 
while attending class shall be considered by the supervisor based on staffing needs, 
availability of supervision, hours of operation, and other legitimate business reasons.  If 
a supervisor determines it is necessary to limit the number of employees who can be 
gone for classes, approval, which is at the supervisor’s discretion, shall be in the order 
of University seniority. 

is  approved  by 

 
Section 3.  TUITION WAIVER, REDUCED TUITION PROGRAMS 
 
When University reduced tuition/tuition waiver programs exist, the following guidelines apply: 
 
A. 

Employees  shall  be  granted  the  opportunity  to  make  application  to  enroll,  under 
existing program policies, in University courses held during non-work hours. 

 
B. 

 
B. 

Departments  shall  establish  written  guidelines  for  how  employees  may utilize these 
programs. 

These guidelines shall be provided to employees at the time of hire or upon request. 

 
C. 
 
Proposals to use flexible hours to make up the time and work while attending classes shall be 
considered  by  the  supervisor  based  on  staffing  needs,  availability  of  supervision,  hours  of 
operation, and other legitimate business reasons.  If a supervisor determines it is necessary 
to  limit  the  number  of  employees  who  can  be  gone  for  classes,  approval  which  is  at  the 
supervisor's discretion, shall be in the order of University seniority. 
 
Section 4.  CAREER DEVELOPMENT 
 
Information on University career development programs which may exist shall be provided at 
employee orientation programs. 
 
The  appropriate  Human  Resources  administrator  and  the  Union agree to meet and confer, 
upon request, at a mutually agreed time to review information on current career development 
programs and to hear Union reactions. 

 

19

ARTICLE 11 
CHILD CARE 

 
 

 

 
The Employer shall continue to provide tax sheltered dependent care accounts for employees' 
payroll deduction use, if allowable under state and federal statute. 
 
Each campus shall provide to employees information that is available on child care referral 
services  existing  for  both  well  and  sick  child  care.  This  information  will  be  provided  at 
employee  orientation  and  upon  employee  request  by  the  appropriate  Human  Resources 
Department.  Additional child care information is included in Appendix E. 
 
Whenever the University establishes an active Child Care Committee on a campus, the Union 
shall be offered representation on that Committee. 
 

ARTICLE 12 

HOURS OF WORK 

 
SECTION 1.  WORK SCHEDULE 
 
Hours  of  work  (work  week  or  period,  shift,  and  day)  are  established  by  the  Department.  
Supervisors  may  reschedule  hours  of  work  for  reasons  consistent  with  the  mission  of  the 
University.  Temporary  changes  in  the  hours  of  work  (two  weeks  or  less)  require  two  (2) 
calendar  days  notice,  unless  the  supervisor  and  the  employee(s)  mutually  agree  to  shorter 
notice.  Changes  in  the  hours  of  work  which  extend beyond two (2) weeks require fourteen 
(14)  calendar  days  notice  unless  the  supervisor  and  the  employee(s)  mutually  agree  to 
shorter  notice.  The  Union  and  the  employee(s)  affected  by  the  change  may  discuss  the 
change with the supervisor. 
 
The  full-time  work  week  shall  be  forty  (40)  hours  per  seven  (7)  calendar  day  week.    If 
possible, the forty (40) hours shall be consecutive work days with two (2) or more consecutive 
days off. 
 
A work shift is a regularly recurring period of work with a starting and ending time exclusive of 
overtime.  If requested by the employee, the employee may change days, shifts, or hours of 
work  with  the  approval  of  his/her  supervisor  provided  such  change  does  not  result  in  the 
payment of overtime. 
 
SECTION 2.  FLEXIBLE WORK SCHEDULE 
 
Once  each  six  months,  if  requested  by  employee(s),  a  Department  shall  hold  a  discussion 
with  the  employee(s)  at  a  time  and  place  determined  by  the  Department  regarding  flexible 
work time in the Department as a whole.  This provision does not apply to Departments where 
a  flexible  scheduling  policy  is  already  accessible  to  employees  or  where  a  discussion  with 
employees  has  occurred  in  the  past  six  months  and  has  resulted  in  a  decision  not  to 
implement  flexible  scheduling.  A  representative  from  the  appropriate  Human  Resources 
Department  and  the  Union  may  attend  such  discussions.    Other  staff  and  faculty,  at  the 
discretion of the Department, may also attend. 
20

 

 
Discussion involving flexible scheduling may focus on work productivity, effective and efficient 
delivery of quality services, administrative costs, staffing needs of the work areas involved for 
hour and function coverage, and other areas that may concern the employee(s), staff, faculty, 
supervisors, and Department.  Elements of flexible schedules may include variable length of 
work days, variable starting and ending times (while insuring that core periods of necessary 
coverage are maintained), variable work week and variable appointment percentages. 
 
Once  the  Department  makes  the  determination  regarding  the viability and nature of flexible 
scheduling,  the  Department's  determination  and  any  arrangements  for  flexible  work 
schedules shall be communicated in writing with reasons for the decision to employees in the 
Department.    If  there  is  disagreement  regarding  the  viability  or  nature  of  the  flexible 
scheduling, the Department's decision shall prevail and neither the decision nor the reasons 
given may be grieved.  However, no later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the decision is 
communicated to the employee(s), the decision may be appealed by employee(s) to the next 
level supervisor who did not have an active role in making the final decision. 
 
The employee(s) shall be given the opportunity to personally present their arguments about 
the installation or change of flexible schedules to the manager designated by the Employer to 
hear  the  appeal.    The  manager  hearing  the  appeal  shall  consider  the  factors  enumerated 
above  and  whether  the  department  has  fairly  considered  whether  flexible  scheduling  is 
workable.  There shall be a written decision denying or affirming the installation or change of 
a  flexible  schedule  with  an  explanation  of  the  reasons  for  the  decision  within  fourteen  (14) 
calendar days of the completion of the information gathering.  Appeals of Employer decisions 
to  terminate  or  change  established  flexible  schedules  may  be  appealed  only  through  the 
procedure set forth in this section. 
 
Flexible  work  schedules  may  affect  an  employee's  eligibility  for  fringe  benefits.  University 
fringe benefit rules and regulations will apply.  Nothing in this section prohibits a Department's 
right  to  review,  modify  and  schedule  hours  of  work,  or  to  hold  additional  discussions 
pertaining to scheduling. 
 
SECTION 3.  PAID REST PERIODS 
 
Employees  are  entitled  to  and  shall be granted a fifteen (15) minute paid rest period during 
four (4) hours of work.  Special arrangements for paid rest periods should be made between 
the  employee  and  the  supervisor  when  workload  or  staffing  requirements  prevent  a  regular 
schedule, or a schedule around the middle of the four (4) hour period. Employees who work 
beyond  their  normally  scheduled  work  shift  shall  receive  a  fifteen  (15)  minute  rest  period 
before they continue work if their work will extend four (4) hours or more.  Paid rest periods for 
employees  working  regularly  scheduled  long  shifts  (12  hours,  for  example)  should  be 
extended proportionally. Paid rest periods are not cumulative from one day to the next. 
 
SECTION 4.  UNPAID LUNCH PERIOD 
 
Scheduled  unpaid  meal  periods  interrupting  a  work  shift  shall  not  be  less  than  thirty  (30) 
minutes nor more than sixty (60) minutes in length unless there is mutual agreement between 
the supervisor and employee to extend beyond the sixty (60) minutes for special occasions. 
 
SECTION 5.  UNAUTHORIZED ABSENCE FROM WORK 

 

21

 
When an employee is absent from work without authorization such absence shall be grounds 
for  disciplinary  action.    An  employee  absent  for  three  (3)  consecutive  work  days  without 
authorization has resigned. However, a person may subsequently apply for a retroactive leave 
of absence without pay to cover the unauthorized time off, and such a request, made within 
seven  (7)  calendar  days  of  the  commencement  of  the  unauthorized  time  off,  shall  receive 
reasonable  consideration,  particularly  in those cases where a documented disability caused 
the absence and that fact is supported by a statement from a medical practitioner as defined 
in  the  Family  Medical  Leave  Act  which  is  to  be  submitted  along  with  the  leave  of  absence 
request. 
 
SECTION 6. PERCENTAGE OF APPOINTMENT 
 
An  employee  who  works  an  average  of  ten  (10)  percentage  points  or  more  beyond  his/her 
appointed  percentage  time  or  a  supplemental  employee  who  works  regular,  predictable, 
scheduled hours, for three (3) or more consecutive payroll periods shall have the right to have 
his/her appointment percentage and employment status as defined in Article 6 reviewed by 
the supervisor.  The Employer will not be required to raise the percentage time worked  or 
change  employment  status  if  there  is  clear evidence that the employee will not be working 
beyond his/her previous appointment percentage time on a regular basis in the future. 
 
If  there  is  clear  evidence  that  the  employee  will  continue  working  beyond  his/her  current 
percentage  appointment,  or  continue  working  regular,  predictable,  scheduled  hours,  the 
appointment  percentage  will  be  raised  to  the  average  percent  time  worked  or  to  the 
employment status reflected  in the three (3) previous payroll periods.  If at any time after the 
subsequent  three  (3)  payroll  periods  the  supervisor  determines  that  the  employee  will  not 
continue working beyond his/her previous appointment percentage time or continue working 
regular,  predictable,  scheduled  hours  on  a  regular  basis  in  the  future,  the  supervisor  may 
reduce the appointment to the percentage time assigned prior to the employee's request, or 
return  the  employee  to  supplemental  status  with  five  (5)  days  prior  notice  given  to  the 
employee. 
 
If  the  employee  has  served  six  (6)  or  more  consecutive  months  in  the  higher  percentage 
appointment,  the  layoff  and  bumping  provisions  of  this  agreement  shall  apply  unless  the 
employee is working to cover another employee's paid or non-paid leave.  In such a case, the 
layoff  and  bumping  provisions  shall  not  apply  unless  the  employee  has  served  nine  (9)  or 
more consecutive months in the higher percentage appointment. 
 
Any appointment percentage time adjustment made under the provisions of this Section shall 
be effective on the first pay period after the adjustment request is received by the Employer or 
the notice is received by the employee. 
 
Changes  in  the  percentage  time  of  an  appointment  may  affect  an  employee's  eligibility  for 
fringe  benefits.  University  fringe  benefit  rules  and  regulations  will  apply.    Nothing  in  this 
section  prohibits  a  Department's  right  to  review  and  modify  the  percentage  time  of 
appointments. 
 
SECTION 7.  SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETERS HOURS OF WORK AND SCHEDULES 
 

22

 

The  provisions  of  this  Section  refer  only  to  employees  in  the  Sign  Language  Interpreter 
classification  
 
A. 
 

Shifts and Schedules. 

The  Employer  shall  assign  employees  with  percentage  appointments  of  seventy-five 
(75) percent or more to shifts based on staffing needs, hours of operation, specific skills 
of  employees,  and  other  legitimate  business  reasons.  The Employer agrees to meet 
with employees on a quarterly basis and to consider input on the development of these 
schedules.  The decision to assign employees to shifts, the length of the assigned shift, 
and the start and end time of shifts are at the discretion of the employer. 

Assignment of Work. 

For  work  outside  of  the  employee's  assigned  schedules,  such  as  weekend  work, 
qualified employees shall be offered the additional hours of work in descending order 
of University Seniority.  If no such employee desires to work the extra hours, the least 
senior employee by University Seniority shall be assigned the work.  

Two  (2)  sign  language  interpreters  shall  be  assigned  to  classes  under  the  following 
circumstances: 

1.   when an assignment is scheduled for two (2) hours or more in length; or 
2.   when in the supervisor’s determination the specific requirements of the assignment 

suggest it would be appropriate. 

Ongoing Discussions. 

The Employer agrees to meet with two Sign Language Interpreters and a Union staff 
representative  to  discuss  ongoing  issues  of  concern  including  preparation  time, 
employment  status  of  supplemental/hourly  employees,  scheduling  issues,  recovery 
time,  and  staff  meetings.    Two  (2)  hours,  or  more  time  if  mutually  agreed,  shall  be 
scheduled  for  such  meetings  if  requested  by  the  Union.    Employee  representatives 
shall participate in these meetings on unpaid time. 

 

 
B. 
 

 

 

 
C. 
 

 

ARTICLE 13 
OVERTIME  

 
SECTION 1.  OVERTIME HOURS AND RATES 
 
Overtime  is  the  time  worked  in  excess  of  forty  (40)  hours  per  work  week  for  employees 
scheduled in a seven (7) day work period, on one or more University jobs. 
 
All hours worked by an employee greater than twelve (12) consecutive hours in any work day 
shall be paid at time and one half the employee's regular rate of pay. 
 
Compensation shall not be paid more than once for the same hours under any provision of 
this agreement. 
 

 

23

Overtime worked with the prior approval of the supervisor shall be compensated by pay or by 
compensatory time off, at the option of the employee, unless payment in cash is prohibited by 
funding source or availability of funds as determined by the Department.  Each department 
shall identify in writing more than one person authorized to approve overtime. 
 
If payment of cash overtime is prohibited, the employee should be informed of that fact before 
working the overtime, or at the time of hire, or when funding source or availability of funds as 
determined by the Department requires a change in the compensation method. 
 
All  employees  shall  be  paid  or  receive  compensatory  time  at  time-and-one-half  (1.5)  the 
employee's regular rate for overtime as defined above.  An employee may use compensatory 
time,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  supervisor,  within  a  reasonable  period  of  time  after  a 
request to do so unless the use would unduly disrupt the operation of the department. 
 
Requests to use compensatory time shall be given reasonable consideration. 
 
Departments have full discretion to limit (in accordance with written Department policy) the 
amount  of  compensatory  time  off  that  can  be  accumulated  and  the  length  of  time  a 
compensatory time-off balance can be carried forward, except that maximum limits imposed 
by  statute  (i.e.,  160  hours  of  straight  time,  240  hours  at  time  and  one-half)  will  be  strictly 
followed. 
 
The  payment  for  paid  overtime  shall  be  processed  without  undue  delay  when  possible.  
Departments are encouraged to report all paid overtime on the same payroll abstract as for 
the payroll period in which it was earned or on the immediately following payroll abstract for 
employees paid semi-monthly. 
 
Upon  leaving  the  University  or  upon  transferring  from  one  Department  of  the  University  to 
another Department, an employee whose funding source does not prohibit a cash payment 
may cash out compensatory overtime on the following complete payroll abstract with fourteen 
(14) calendar days written notice.  If payment is prohibited, arrangements will be made by the 
Department to handle the remaining compensatory overtime obligation. 
 
SECTION 2.  DISTRIBUTION OF OVERTIME 
 
A. 

Overtime  as  a  Condition  of  Employment.  Certain positions will require overtime as a 
condition of employment.  Employees in these positions may be required to work pre-
planned,  scheduled  overtime  which  may  not  be  reassignable  to  others.    Employees 
required to work this overtime should be informed of this condition of employment at 
the  time  of  hire,  or  when  the  Department  requires  this  overtime  as  a  condition  of 
employment. 

 
B. 

24

Reassignable Overtime. The Employer shall offer and distribute reassignable overtime 
to employees as soon as the need for the overtime is anticipated.  When reassignable 
overtime is required, the employee who usually performs the work shall be given first 
opportunity to work the overtime (including holidays).  If the employee chooses not to 
accept reassignable overtime, or if there is more than one (1) employee in the same 
classification who normally performs the work and the need for the overtime is known 
more than twenty-four (24) hours in advance, the Employer shall inform employees of 
the  available  overtime  by  memorandum  or  posting  and  other  employees  who  are 

 

qualified and able to perform the work and wish to work overtime shall be permitted to 
work such overtime in classification seniority order with the most senior employee in 
that classification within the work unit in the Department being given first consideration.  
When  there  is  twenty-four (24) hours or less notice of the reassignable overtime, the 
Employer  shall  assign  the  overtime  according  to  the  distribution  system.    In  such 
cases,  the  Employer  shall  attempt  to  notify  employees  by  memorandum,  posting,  or 
other  means.    If  all  such  employees  decline  to  work  the  reassignable  overtime,  the 
employee  with  the  least  amount  of  classification  seniority  within  the  work  unit  in  the 
Department, who is qualified, shall be required to work the overtime. 

 
If the employee chooses not to accept reassignable overtime, or if there is more than one (1) 
employee  in  different  classifications  who  normally  perform  the  work  and  the  need  for  the 
overtime  is  known  more  than  twenty-four (24) hours in advance, the Employer shall inform 
employees of the available overtime by memorandum or posting, and other employees who 
are  qualified  and  able  to  perform  the  work  and  wish  to  work  overtime  shall  be  permitted to 
work  such  overtime  in  University  seniority  order  with  the  most  senior  employee  within  the 
work unit in the Department being given first consideration.  When there is twenty-four (24) 
hours  or  less  notice  of  the  reassignable  overtime,  the  Employer  shall  assign  the  overtime 
according  to  the  distribution  system.    In  such  cases,  the  Employer  shall  attempt  to  notify  
employees by memorandum,  posting, or other means.  If all such employees decline to work 
the reassignable overtime, the employee with the least amount of University seniority within 
the  work  unit  in  the  Department,  who  is  qualified,  shall  be  required  to  work  the  overtime.  
Overtime distributions shall be completed in time to provide the employee who will work the 
overtime four (4) hours or one half shift of notice. 
 
With  the  prior  approval  of  the  supervisor  and  to  the  extent  compatible  with  a  particular 
reassignable  overtime  assignment,  an  employee  may  be  allowed  to  work  the  overtime  at 
hours that are amenable to the employee's work schedule and personal commitments. 
 
The  Employer  shall  not  be  required  to  interrupt  a  specific  project  in  progress  in  order  to 
distribute overtime.  Neither shall this Article require additional overtime to orient or train an 
employee to do the overtime work. 

 
 

ARTICLE 14 

REPORTING AND CALL IN TIME  

 
SECTION 1.  REPORTING TIME 
 
A full-time employee who is required to report to work for full-time service (eight hours) shall 
be given a minimum of four (4) hours of work on the day of reporting.  In the absence of at 
least four (4) hours of work, the employee shall receive four (4) hours of pay at the employee's 
regular  straight-time hourly rate or overtime, whichever is applicable.  A part-time employee 
who is scheduled for six (6) hours of work, or more, shall be given a minimum of two (2) hours 
of  work  on  the  day  of  reporting.  However,  an  employee  who  reports  for  work,  and  who 
because of illness or physical disability cannot be employed for the protection of either the 
employee's own well-being or that of others, shall receive pay only for actual hours worked. 
 
SECTION 2.  CALL-IN TIME 
 

 

25

A  full-time employee who is called in because of an emergency shall receive a minimum of 
two (2) hours of pay at time-and-one-half (1.5) the employee's regular rate or compensatory 
time off (at the employee's option, unless payment in cash is prohibited by funding source or 
unavailability of funds as determined by the Department) provided the employee: 
 
A. 

Has  completed  a  regular  work  day  and  left  the  work  place  for  at  least  thirty  (30) 
minutes; or 

Is called in on a non work day; or  

Is called in early but will not work a continuous shift. 

 
B. 
 
C. 
 
If compensatory time off is granted, the dates selected must be approved by the supervisor. 
 
SECTION 3.  EMERGENCY CAMPUS CLOSINGS 
 

Compensation for hours not worked or for extra hours worked due to University-wide or 
individual campus closings for weather or other emergencies is covered in emergency 
closing policy and procedures.  Contact the appropriate Human Resources Department 
or your Chancellor's office for a copy of the current document. 

 
SECTION 4.  ON CALL TIME 
 
 

An employee instructed in writing by the supervisor to be on call to answer phone calls 
or return to work if necessary shall be compensated for such time at the rate of $2.00 
per hour in on call status. 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

An employee called to work while in on call status shall be compensated as provided 
in this Article.  No employee shall be assigned to on call status for a period of less than 
four (4) consecutive hours. 

An employee’s time in working over the phone shall be considered work time. 

An  employee  who  is  required  to  be  in  on  call  status  on  a  holiday  shall  receive 
compensation as provided in this Section in addition to regular holiday pay. 

 

ARTICLE 15 
HOLIDAYS 

 
 
SECTION 1.  OBSERVED HOLIDAYS 
 
Employees (including those on temporary appointments) who are appointed at a designated 
percentage time shall be entitled to a total of eleven (11) paid holidays each fiscal year.  The 
holidays shall be seven (7) "observed" and four (4) "floating/personal." 
 
The seven (7) "observed" holidays are: 
 
 
26

° New Year's Day 

 

 

On  the  Twin  Cities  campus,  three  (3)  of  these  holidays  shall  be  scheduled  by  the 
University.    One  (1)  will  be  designated  as  a  personal  holiday  to  be  taken  at  the 
employee's  discretion,  with  the  supervisor's  approval,  in  accordance  with  the 
University's guidelines on the use of personal holidays. 

Coordinate campuses and CUHCC shall establish their own policies for these days. 

 
B. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

° Martin Luther King's Birthday 
° Memorial Day 
° Independence Day 
° Labor Day 
° Thanksgiving Day 
° Christmas Day 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There shall be four (4) "floating/personal" holidays scheduled annually.  
 
A. 

Observed  holidays  that  fall  on  Saturday  shall  be  observed  on  the  preceding  Friday.  
Observed holidays that fall on Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday.  For 
employees whose schedules include Saturdays and/or Sundays, the observed holiday 
shall be on its actual day of occurrence instead of on the preceding Friday or following 
Monday. 

 
SECTION 2.  HOLIDAY WORK 
 
An  employee  entitled  to  a  paid  holiday  leave  who  is  required  to  work  on  a  holiday  shall 
receive regular pay for the day plus additional pay or time off at the rate of time-and-one-half 
(1.5)  the  employee's  regular  rate  of  pay  for  the  hours  worked.    Employees  may  choose 
between  time  off  or  pay  for  these  hours  unless  payment  in  cash  is  prohibited  by  funding 
source or availability of funds as determined by the Department. 
 
SECTION 3.  HOLIDAY TIME OFF 
 
When a holiday falls on an employee's day off, the employee shall receive an additional day 
off, or proportionate time off (based on the percentage time of appointment), as agreed upon 
between the employee and the supervisor. 
 
SECTION 4.  HOLIDAY PAY ELIGIBILITY 
 
To  qualify  for  holiday  pay,  an  employee  must either work or be on an approved paid leave 
(such  as  vacation)  on  the  employee's  regularly  scheduled  work  day  before  or  following  the 
holiday. 
 
SECTION 5.  RELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS 
 
When a religious holiday, not an "observed" holiday as provided in Section 2 of this Article, 
falls on an employee's regularly scheduled work day, the employee, using a personal floating 
holiday, vacation leave, or compensatory time off, if available, or leave without pay, shall be 
entitled to that day off to observe the religious holiday.  An employee who chooses to observe 
such a religious holiday shall notify the employee's supervisor in writing at least twenty-one 

 

27

(21)  calendar  days  prior  to  the  religious  holiday.    Requests  in  excess  of  three  (3)  days  per 
calendar year shall be granted at the discretion of the supervisor. 
 

ARTICLE 16 
VACATION 

 

SECTION 1.  ELIGIBILITY 
 
Employees  (including  those  on  temporary  appointments)  who  are  employed  in  one 
Department on a 75% time or greater appointment shall earn vacation with pay.  Employees 
(including those on temporary appointments) who are employed in one Department on a 50% 
to 74% time appointment shall earn vacation leave, on a proportional basis, after two (2) years 
of continuous employment. 
 
SECTION 2.  ACCRUAL RATES 
 
All employees under this Article shall earn and accumulate vacation leave as follows:   
 

 
Years of University Service
0 through 5 years 
(10,400 
hours of continuous service)
6 through 8 years 
(10,401-16,640 
hours of continuous service)
9 through 12 years 
(16,641 - 24,960 
hours of continuous service)
13 through 20 years 
(24,961 - 41,600 
hours of continuous service)
21 through 25 years 
(41,601 - 52,000 
hours of continuous service)
26 through 30 years 
(52,001 - 62,400 
hours of continuous service)
31 plus years 
(all hours after 62,401) 

Accrual Rate 
Biweekly Payroll 
3 minutes/hour 
 

3.75 minutes/hour 
 

5.25 minutes/hour 
 

5.65 minutes/hour 
 

6.0  minutes/hour 
 

6.375 minutes/hour 
 

6.75 minutes/hour 
 

 
Maximum Accumulation 
208 hours 

260 hours 

364 hours 

391.7 hours 

416 hours 

442 hours 

468 hours 

*  Accrual rates and maximum accumulation rates are exclusive of time converted from sick 
leave, in accordance with Article 13, Sick Leave, Section 3, Sick Leave Conversion. 
 
Employees  shall  accrue  vacation  leave  for  all  straight-time  paid  work  hours.    A  year  of 
continuous service shall consist of two thousand eighty (2,080) straight time paid work hours 
or proportionate part thereof.  Paid vacation is available for use the pay period following the 
completion  of  six  (6)  months  of  continuous  employment  (1,040  straight time paid hours) or 
proportionate part thereof.  The first six (6) month period of continuous employment, and each 
year of continuous employment, shall be extended by adding to such periods the number of 
28

 

work days the employee has been absent without pay. Vacation leave shall not accrue during 
periods of unpaid leave. 
 
The maximum amount of unused vacation an employee may accrue is two (2) years worth at 
the employee's current earning rate. 
 
Each  employee  shall  be  informed  of  their  current  vacation  accumulation  and  maximum 
accrual  allowed  on  each  pay  check,  or  if  that  is  not  possible,  a  monthly  written  report  of 
current accumulation and maximum accrual allowed shall be provided to the employee. 
 
Vacation leave accumulation for any one pay period is not available for use until the following 
pay period.  When any leave accumulation rate period of service ends within a pay period, the 
new vacation accrual rate starts the following pay period. 
 
SECTION 3.  VACATION PERIODS 
 
Vacation  shall  be  taken  at  times  selected  by  employees,  subject  to  supervisory  approval.  
Within  a  Department,  choice  of  available  vacation  time  shall  be  determined  by  time  in  the 
Department  provided  the  request  is  submitted  at  least  thirty  (30)  days  in  advance  of  the 
vacation  period.  Once  a vacation request has been approved, that request shall be honored 
and an employee with more time in the department shall not bump another employee from 
taking an approved vacation.  Specific vacation request procedures may be implemented by 
Departments.  While the employer may limit the number of employees who may be gone at 
any one time based on staffing needs, the employer shall not limit by procedure or rule the 
amount  of  earned  vacation  leave  any  one  employee  can  take  at  any  one  time.    The 
designated  or  appropriate  administrator  shall  give  reasonable  consideration  to  vacation 
requests and shall respond promptly to any request and respond to any request submitted at 
least thirty (30) days in advance within five (5) calendar days of receipt of the written request. 
 
Any  employee  who  is  about  to  lose  vacation  leave  because  he/she  has  been  denied  a 
vacation  request  made  in  accordance  with  a  department's  leave  policy  and  will  therefore 
reach the maximum accumulation, shall be entitled to take one week of vacation to prevent 
such loss upon advance notice of seven (7) calendar days to his/her supervisor, or shall be 
allowed to cash out one (1) week of vacation. 
 
SECTION 4.  WORK DURING VACATION PERIOD 
 
Once  a  vacation  has  been  approved,  unless  the  circumstances  present  at  the  time  it  was 
approved have changed, it can be rescinded only by the Department head.  If an employee is 
called to work while on approved vacation leave, the employee must be paid at time-and-one-
half (1.5) the employee's regular rate for the hours worked. 
 
 
SECTION 5.  VACATION RIGHTS 
 
An  employee  shall  not  be  required  to  reduce  below  ten  (10)  days  of  vacation  before  using 
leave without pay. 
 
Any  employee  with  vacation  eligible  for  use  who  leaves  University  employment  shall  be 
compensated for accumulated, unused vacation. 

 

29

 
If a date of expected return from layoff is included in the layoff notice, an employee shall be 
allowed  to  leave  his/her  vacation  accruals  intact.    If  an  employee  does  not  return  to 
employment within the one year specified in the notice of layoff, the accumulated vacation will 
be paid out at the salary rate in effect on the last day worked.  If an employee fails to give at 
least 
for 
accumulated, unused vacation shall be made as soon as possible. 
 

two  (2)  weeks  advance  notice  of  a  voluntary 

termination,  compensation 

Any employee who changes to a work schedule of less than 50% time shall be entitled to be 
paid  for  any  unused  portion  of  vacation  leave,  provided  the  employee  has  completed  one 
thousand forty (1,040) straight time paid work hours or proportionate part thereof.  When an 
employee changes from a work schedule of 75% time or more to a work schedule of between 
50% and 74% time and does not meet the two (2) year requirement, accumulated vacation 
leave shall be paid out if the employee has completed one thousand forty (1,040) straight time 
hours  or  proportionate  part  thereof.    If  the  employee  has  not  completed  one  thousand  forty 
(1,040) straight time hours or proportionate part thereof, the accumulated vacation credits are 
lost.  In either case, the hours worked by the employee before the change shall be credited 
towards the two (2) year requirement. 

ARTICLE 17 
SICK LEAVE 

 
SECTION 1.  ELIGIBILITY 
 
Employees  (including  those  on  temporary  appointments)  who  are  employed  in  one 
Department  on  a  75%  time  or  greater  appointment  shall  accumulate  sick  leave  with  pay. 
Employees who are employed in one Department on a 50% to 74% time appointment shall 
earn sick leave at the same rate, on a proportionate basis, after two (2) years of University 
employment at a 50% or greater appointment. Unpaid leave shall extend the calendar period 
for eligibility. 
 
SECTION 2.  ACCUMULATION 
 
Sick  leave  shall  accrue  at  the  rate  of  three  (3)  minutes  per  straight  time  hour  paid  to  a 
maximum of eighty (80) hours per pay period. 
 
Sick leave accumulated for any one pay period is not available for use until the following pay 
period.  
 
An employee with available sick leave who leaves University employment or who changes to 
a  work  schedule  of  less  than  75%  time  shall lose unused sick leave unless the employee 
continues  at  50%  to  74%  time  and  has  met  the  initial  two  (2)  year  requirement.    If  an 
employee  who  has  earned  sick  leave  reduces  his/her  appointment  because  of  a  layoff 
situation, that employee shall keep the sick leave s/he has accrued and be able to use that 
leave according to this Article, even though that employee may not be eligible to accrue more 
sick leave. 
 
Employees  shall  be  informed  of  their  total  accumulated  sick  leave  on  each  paycheck,  or  if 
that is not possible, shall be given a written report each month of their total accumulated sick 
leave. 

30

 

 
If the supervisor and employee agree, an employee shall be allowed to use leave without pay 
for  purposes  identified  in  this  Article  rather  than  using  accrued  sick leave.  If sick leave is 
exhausted, an employee shall be allowed to use vacation leave or overtime accruals for the 
reasons sick leave is provided in this Article unless the employee has discipline for abuse of 
sick leave in his/her personnel file, in which case the employee may use vacation or overtime 
accruals subject to the provisions of Article 16, Vacation and Article 13, Overtime. 
 
SECTION 3.  SICK LEAVE CONVERSION 
 
When a sick leave accumulation of four hundred (400) hours has been reached, one-quarter 
(1/4)  of  any  sick  leave  accumulated  thereafter  may  be  credited  to  the  employee's  vacation 
accumulation if the employee's sick leave accumulation is maintained at four hundred (400) 
or more hours;  three-quarters (3/4) of sick leave accumulated thereafter may be credited to 
sick leave.  Sick leave accumulated prior to July 1, 1970, cannot be transferred to vacation 
under the provisions of this Article. 
 
When  a  sick  leave  accumulation  of  eight  hundred  (800)  hours  has  been  reached,  one-half 
(1/2)  of  any  sick  leave  accumulated  thereafter  may  be  credited  to  the  employee's  vacation 
accumulation if the employee's sick leave accumulation is maintained at eight hundred (800) 
or  more  hours;  one-half  (1/2)  of  sick  leave  accumulated  thereafter  may  be  credited  to  sick 
leave. 
 
SECTION 4.  UTILIZATION 
 
Approved sick leave may be used by an employee who is unable to perform duties because 
of  illness,  injury,  or  pregnancy;  or  who  would  expose  others  to  contagious  or  infectious 
diseases; or who must keep medical or dental care appointments. 
 
Accumulated sick leave may be used to supplement Workers’ Compensation benefits during 
periods of lost work time due to compensable on-the-job illness or injury. 
 
Approved sick leave may be used to care for or arrange care for an employee’s child, and up 
to five (5) days per incident may be used by an employee to care for or make arrangements 
for the care of an ill member of the employee’s immediate family.  A department may approve 
an additional five (5) days of sick leave to care for or make arrangements for the care of an ill 
member  of  the  employee’s  immediate  family  provided  this  illness  is  covered  by  the  FMLA.   
Immediate  family  as  used  in  this  portion  of  the  Article  shall  mean  spouse  or  cohabitor, 
children  (including  foster  children  and  step-children),  parents,  or  parents-in-law  of  the 
employee  and  registered  same  sex  domestic  partner,  children  of  the  registered  same  sex 
domestic partner, or parents of the registered same sex domestic partner. 
 
Accumulated sick leave, as approved by the supervisor, of up to two (2) days per year can be 
used by an employee to participate in a personal health maintenance program (e.g., weight 
control, stress management, stop smoking). 
 
Three (3) days of accumulated sick leave shall be granted for bereavement leave per Article 
18,  Leaves  of  Absence,  Section  2.    Additionally,  with  the  approval  of  the  supervisor  or 
department head, employees may use sick leave to serve as pallbearers or to attend funerals 
of individuals not identified above. 

 

31

 
SECTION 5.  REQUESTING SICK LEAVE 
 
A. 

Employees  must  request  and  receive  approval  for  use  of  sick  leave  from  the 
designated  or  appropriate  administrator  in  the  Department  as  soon  as  possible  after 
the onset of illness. 

 
B.  While  supervisors  must  be  informed  of  the  general  nature  of  an  illness,  such 

information shall be treated by the supervisor with appropriate confidentiality. 

In the case of extended or chronic illness, the designated or appropriate administrator 
in the Department may require statements from a physician or dentist which includes 
the anticipated date of return.  

Upon  request  of  the  employer,  when  the  Employer  has  reasonable  cause  to  believe 
that an employee has abused or is abusing sick leave, employees utilizing leave under 
this  Article  may  be  required  to  furnish  a  statement  from  a  medical  practitioner  as 
defined in the Family Medical Leave Act stating that the practitioner finds the employee 
unable  to  work  due  to  illness.    Requests  to  furnish  a  statement  from  a  medical 
practitioner may be oral or written.  Oral requests shall be reduced to writing as soon 
as practicable.  The written requests shall state the reason(s) for the request as well as 
the  period  of  time  that  the  employee  will  be  required  to  furnish  the  statement.    If  an 
employee does not bring a medical practitioner's statement of illness when requested, 
the supervisor may deny the use of sick leave. 

Abuse of sick leave shall be one form of just cause for disciplinary action.  Abuse shall 
be defined as use of paid sick leave for reasons other than those listed in this Article.  
Use of paid sick leave in a pattern such as Mondays, Fridays, or the day after payday is 
an example of a use of sick leave that may constitute abuse. 

A  designated  or  appropriate  administrator  may  require  an  employee  to  leave  the 
workplace: 
 
1) 

If  the  employee  is  unable  to  perform  job  responsibilities  in  an  up-to-standard 
manner because of what appears to be a health condition; or  

 
2) 

If the employee may expose others in the workplace to illness or disease.  Such 
time shall be charged against sick leave, if available. 

 
If an employee becomes ill while on vacation leave and presents satisfactory proof of 
illness  or  injury,  the  designated  or  appropriate  administrator  in  the  Department  may 
approve the use of sick leave in lieu of vacation leave. 

 
NOTE:    For  information  on  disability  leave  without  pay,  see  Article  18,  Leaves  of  Absence, 
Section 6. 

 
C. 

 
 

 
D. 

 
E. 

F. 

 
 

 
32

ARTICLE 18 

LEAVES OF ABSENCE 

 

SECTION 1.  REQUESTING LEAVES 
 
Leaves of absence may be granted only when employees submit requests to their supervisors 
or Department Heads within a reasonable time before the desired leave, except as provided 
otherwise  in  this  Agreement.    In  the  case  of  emergencies,  the  request  should  be  made  as 
soon as possible after the emergency arises.  Authorization for or denial of a leave of absence 
shall be furnished to the employee in writing by the immediate supervisor. All requests shall 
be given reasonable consideration. When eligible, an employee shall earn seniority, vacation, 
and sick leave  during a leave of absence with pay.  Vacation and sick leave are not earned 
during  a  leave  of  absence  without  pay,  except  as  provided  for  in  Article  31,  Union  Rights, 
Section 5, Unpaid Leave Provisions. 
 
In addition to leaves listed in this Article, Educational Leaves appear in Article 10, Educational 
and Career Opportunities; Union Leaves appear in Article 31, Union Rights. 
 
SECTION 2.  PAID LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
 
Upon request an employee shall be granted a leave of absence with pay for: 
 
A. 

Bereavement Leave.   Three (3) days of accumulated sick leave shall be granted when 
a  death  occurs  in  the  employee’s  immediate  family,  to  make  necessary  funeral 
arrangements and/or to attend funeral services.  Additional sick leave may be granted if 
necessary.  The Employee’s immediate family as defined in this portion of the Article 
shall  mean  spouse  or  cohabitor,  registered  same  sex  domestic  partner  children, 
(including foster, step children and children of registered same sex domestic partner), 
the  employee’s  parents,  grandparents,  guardian,  grandchildren,  siblings,  wards,  or 
employee’s  parents-in-law or parents of the registered same sex domestic partner.  If 
an employee requests, vacation, compensatory time, or unpaid leave of absence may 
be  used  to  attend  funerals  of  grandparents,  brothers,  or  sisters  of  the  employee’s 
spouse  or  registered  same  sex  domestic  partner.    With  supervisory  approval,  the 
employee may use sick leave to serve as pallbearer or to attend funerals of individuals 
not identified above. 

Jury  Duty.    Jury  duty,  provided  the  employee  is  employed  at  a  50%  or  greater 
appointment.  An employee serving on a jury is expected to report for work during any 
work hours when the jury is recessed. 

Voting.    Voting  in  any  regularly  scheduled  state  primary  or  general election or in an 
election  to  fill  a  vacancy  in  the  office  of  U.  S.  Senator  or  U.  S.  Representative,  or  a 
presidential primary.  This leave may only be taken in the morning of the election day. 

Court  attendance  in  connection  with  an  employee’s  official  duty.    Such  attendance 
shall include transportation to and from the employee’s office and the court. 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

Military  leave.    Tour  of  duty  in  the  reserve  military  forces  of  the  United  States  or 
National Guard, not to exceed fifteen (15) work days in any calendar year. 

 
SECTION 3.  DISCRETIONARY LEAVE WITH PAY IF CALLED AS A WITNESS 
 

 

33

The appropriate administrator/supervisor has the discretion to determine whether a leave of 
absence  with  pay  will  be  granted  for  appearance  before  a  court,  legislative  committee, or 
other  judicial  or  quasi-judicial body as a witness in action involving the federal government, 
the  State  of  Minnesota,  or  a  political  subdivision  thereof,  or  the  University,  in  response  to 
subpoena or other direction by proper authority. 
 
SECTION 4.  LEAVES WITHOUT PAY 
 
A. 

Military  leave  shall  be  granted  in  accordance  with  statutory  requirements.    They 
currently include: 

Military  duty  for  employees  who  are  drafted  or  volunteer  for  military  service 
during  times  of  war  or  declared  emergency,  up  to  four  (4)  years  plus  any 
additional time required by law. 

Military active duty for training or inactive duty training. 

1. 

 
2. 
 
3. 

 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

 

34

Fifteen (15) days per calendar year of paid leave for reserve and national guard 
service. 

 
Vacation  leave,  sick  leave,  and  seniority  shall  be  granted  to  persons  returning  to 
employment  after  military  leave  in  accordance  with  statutory  requirements.    They 
currently  provide  that:    vacation  leave,  sick  leave,  and  seniority  be  maintained  for  all 
persons who are granted military leave per Section 4A, except that persons on duty for 
training (other than initial periods of training for three (3) consecutive months or more, 
and  fifteen  (15)  days  per  calendar  year  of  national  guard  or  reserve  training)  do  not 
receive sick leave. 

Appearance as an individual rather than as an officer or an employee of the University, 
whether  voluntary  or  in  response  to  a  legal  order,  to  appear  and  testify  in  private 
litigation.  If an employee has vacation or compensatory time off available to use, the 
employee may choose to use that leave for this purpose. 

An employee shall be granted up to twelve (12) weeks unpaid leave to care for a family 
member.    During  this  period  of  time,  the  Employer  shall  continue  to  make  the 
Employer's  contribution  to  the  employee's  health  insurance  as  though  the  employee 
were  on  payroll.    An  employee  may  also  be  eligible  to  use  sick  leave  under  the 
provisions  of  Article  17  and  receive  unpaid  leave  as  provided  in  the  Family  Medical 
Leave Act. 

An  employee  shall  be  granted  up  to  sixteen  (16)  hours  unpaid  time  per  year  for 
business  connected  to  children's  schooling  (i.e.,  conferences).    If  an  employee  has 
vacation or compensatory time off available to use, the employee may choose to use 
that leave for this purpose. 

Other  personal leaves may be granted at any time to any employee for any period of 
time  for  personal  purposes  with  department  head  approval.    This  leave  may  include 
personal unpaid educational leave to attend a University educational program leading 
toward a University degree. 

 

 
SECTION 5.  PARENTAL LEAVE 
 
A. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
B. 

Should more than one (1) employee in a work location request personal leave at the 
same  time  and  staffing  does  not  allow  approval  of  more  than  one  (1)  employee  on 
leave, the employee with the most University Seniority shall get the leave.  However, 
personal or educational leave may be denied if other previously approved leaves do not 
allow staffing flexibility to grant additional leaves. 

A two (2) week paid parental leave of absence compensated at the employee’s current 
percentage appointment shall be granted to employees who are biological or adoptive 
parents  when  requested  in  conjunction  with  the  birth  or  adoption  of  a  child  or 
employees  whose  registered  same  sex  domestic  partners  are  biological  or  adoptive 
parents.    The  employee  must  have  completed  nine  (9)  consecutive  months  of 
employment at an average of twenty (20) hours or more paid work time per week.  This 
parental leave shall not be charged against the employee’s accumulated vacation or 
sick leave. 

The employee must give notice of intent to use parental leave to his/her supervisor at 
least  four  (4)  weeks  in  advance  of  the  anticipated  leave,  except  under  unusual 
circumstances. 

The parental leave shall begin at a time requested by the employee, although the leave 
may not begin more than two (2) weeks prior to the due date or anticipated adoption or 
six (6) weeks after the birth or adoption.  This leave must be consecutive and without 
interruption and must be taken during the term of appointment. 

A female  biological parent may also use up to twenty (20) days of accumulated sick 
leave immediately following the parental leave. 

When a woman is unable to perform the duties of her job due to pregnancy, additional 
accumulated sick leave may be used.  If no sick leave is available, an employee may 
use accumulated vacation leave in accordance with Article 16, Vacation. 

An unpaid leave of absence for maternity, paternity, or adoption shall be granted to an 
employee for a period of up to six (6) months when requested in conjunction with the 
birth or adoption of the child of the employee or the employee’s registered same sex 
domestic  partner.    This  leave  may,  upon  request  of  the  employee,  be  extended  or 
renewed for a period not to exceed six (6) months with Department Head approval. 

 
SECTION 6.  DISABILITY LEAVE 
 
A  designated  or  appropriate  administrator  may  grant  a  leave  of  absence  without  pay  for 
periods of temporary disability due to sickness or injury and shall grant a leave of absence 
without  pay  as  required  under  the  Family  Medical  Leave  Act.    During  this  leave,  the 
designated  or  appropriate  administrator  may  periodically  require  the  employee  to  submit  a 
certificate from the attending physician or from a designated physician.  If the employee fails 
or  refuses  to  supply  such  certificate,  or  if  the  certificate  does  not  clearly  show  sufficient 
disability  to  prevent  the  employee  from  performing  assigned  duties,  the  designated  or 
appropriate administrator may cancel such leave and require the employee to report for duty 
on a specified date. 

 

35

 
Sick leave without pay may be granted to an employee who is considered permanently and 
totally  disabled  according  to  any  disability  insurance  program  in  which  the  University 
participates. Should employees on such leave recover to the point that they are employable, 
they shall be treated as though they were laid off and will be eligible to compete for vacancies 
in accordance with the layoff provisions of this Agreement.  An employee on this type of leave 
will  not  be  allowed  to  replace  or  "bump"  an  incumbent  from  the  employee's  most  recently 
held position, unless approved by the hiring authority. 
 
SECTION 7.  REINSTATEMENT AFTER LEAVE 
 
Except as provided in this Agreement or by Minnesota law, an employee who returns from a 
leave of absence without pay has the right to return to employment in the same Department 
and  in  the  same  classification  at  the  expiration  of  the  leave.    An  employee  who  is  laid  off 
before the leave expires shall be entitled to the layoff provisions of the Agreement. 
 
An employee returning from an unpaid leave of absence shall be compensated at the same 
rate of pay received when the leave commenced plus any non discretionary increases which 
became  effective  during  the  time  of  the  leave.    For  increases  requiring  a  specific length of 
service in order to be eligible, any time off the payroll of four (4) consecutive months or more 
will extend the eligibility date for the next increase by the entire time off the payroll. 
 
 

ARTICLE 19 

SALARY 

The  salary  ranges  for  classifications  covered  by  this  Agreement  shall  be  those 
contained in Appendix D. 

No  one  may  be  hired  above  or  below  the  assigned  salary  range  for  his/her 
classification. 

Employees  whose  salaries  are  above  the  range  assigned  to  their classification will 
have their salaries frozen until the salary range increases to include their salary. 

 
SECTION 2.  PROMOTION 
 
A promotion is a change from one classification to another classification that is assigned to a 
higher salary range. 
 
Promoted  employees  must  receive  a  salary  increase  of  at  least  four  percent  (4%)  or  the 
minimum of the new higher salary range, whichever is greater.  Promotional increases may 
be greater than four percent (4%) when in conformance with University policy.  An employee 
reclassified in the same position to a higher classification shall be considered as a promoted 
employee under these provisions. 
 
SECTION 3.  TRANSFER AND DEMOTION 
 
36

 

 
SECTION 1.  SALARY RANGES 
 
A. 

 
B. 

 
 

Employees who take a transfer must be paid within the range. 

A demotion is a change from one classification to another classification assigned to a 
lower salary range. Employees who take a demotion cannot receive a salary increase, 
and  must  be  paid  within  the  new  salary  range.    Employees  who  are  demoted  shall 
have  their  salaries  cut  by  no  more  than  ten  percent  (10%),  or  to  the  top  of  the  new 
lower salary range, whichever is lower. 

 
SECTION 4.  PROGRESSION 
 
General Provisions: 
 
All employees who have been in the bargaining unit one (1) year or more and are not at or 
above the top of the range as of October 1, 1997, will then move up one (1) step on October 
1, 1997; and on October 1 of each year thereafter, if terms for progression steps are provided 
for  in  successor  collective  bargaining  agreements,  each  employee  will  move  to  the  next 
highest  step  in  the  classification,  provided  s/he  has  served  one  year  in  the  bargaining  unit 
until s/he has reached range maximum. 
 
Effective October 1, 1997 new employees hired between October 1 and March 3 will receive a 
progression step increase following completion of their six (6) month probationary period.  The 
employee must serve one year at that step before progressing to the next step on October 1 
of succeeding years. 
 
The Employer may withhold this step increase because of unsatisfactory performance, with 
written  notice  to  the  employee.    Increases  so  withheld  may  subsequently  be  granted  upon 
certification  by  the  Employer  that  the  employee  has  achieved  a  satisfactory  level  of 
performance.  If  the  Employer  fails  to  give  the  employee  written  notice  that  a  progression 
increase is to be withheld prior to the date on which the increase is due, the increase shall be 
granted. 
 
When  an  employee  is  rehired  from  the  layoff  list  he/she  shall  retain  credit  toward  the  next 
progression increase for time worked before the break in service. 
 
Any time off the payroll of four (4) consecutive months or more will extend the eligibility date 
for the next increase by the entire time off the payroll. 
 
SECTION 5.  OTHER SALARY ADJUSTMENTS: JULY 1, 1999 - JUNE 30, 2001 
 
A. 

Employees  will  receive  a  two  and  one  half  percent  (2½%)  general  wage  adjustment 
effective June 21, 1999. All pay ranges shall move upward by the same amount.  Any 
adjustment which would place the employee’s pay rate over the maximum of the range 
will be paid as a lump sum. 

A. 
 
B. 

 
B. 

 

Employees will receive a three percent (3%) general wage adjustment effective June 
19,  2000.  All  pay  ranges  shall  move  upward  by  the  same  amount.    Any  adjustment 
which would place the employee’s pay rate over the maximum of the range will be paid 
as a lump sum. 

 

37

C. 

 
D. 

An employee returning from an unpaid leave of absence shall be compensated at the 
same  rate  of  pay  received  when  the  leave  commenced,  plus  any  non-discretionary 
increase which became effective during the time of the leave. 

Employees who are at the top step of their pay range on June 21, 1999 shall receive a 
one  time  lump  sum  payment  equal  to  two  percent  (2%)  of  their  annual  salary  on 
October 20, 1999. 

 
SECTION 6.  SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL 
 
A. 
 
B. 

Shift differential will be $.60 cents per hour June 21, 1999 

Employees eligible for shift differential are those whose work shift begins before 6:00 
a.m. or ends on or after 7:00 p.m. and are scheduled by their supervisor for a total shift 
of  at  least  six  (6)  hours  in  duration.  This  shift  differential  shall  not  apply  to  those 
employees who have requested and have been granted flexible work scheduling. 

 
SECTION 7.  WORK OUT OF CLASSIFICATION 
 
An employee who works in a higher classification for longer than five (5) consecutive work 
days  shall  receive  a  temporary  salary  augmentation  during  the  remainder  of  the  time  the 
employee  works  out-of-class.    The  augmentation  will  be  at  least  four  percent  (4%)  of  the 
employee's current hourly rate, but no less than the base rate of the higher classification. Any 
overtime worked during this period shall be compensated by including the augmentation. 
 
SECTION 8.  PERFORMANCE PROGRAMS 
 
At the discretion of each Collegiate/Administrative Seniority Unit, outstanding service award 
programs  may  exist  and  employees  governed  by  this  Agreement  may  be  eligible  for 
participation  in  them.    No  aspect  of  any  performance  program  is  subject  to  the  grievance 
procedure. 

 
 

ARTICLE 20 
INSURANCE 

 
SECTION  1.    STATE  EMPLOYEE  GROUP  INSURANCE  PROGRAM   During the life of this 
Agreement,  the  Employer  agrees  to  offer  a  Group  Insurance  Program  that  includes  health, 
dental, life, and disability coverages equivalent to existing coverages, subject to the provisions 
of this Article. 
 
All insurance eligible employees will be provided with a Summary Plan Description describing 
these coverages.  Such Summary Plan Description shall be provided no less than biennially 
and  prior  to  the  beginning  of  the  insurance  year.    New  insurance  eligible  employees  shall 
receive a Summary Plan Description within thirty (30) days of their date of eligibility. 
 
SECTION 2.  ELIGIBILITY FOR GROUP PARTICIPATION   This section describes eligibility to 
participate in the Group Insurance Program. 

38

 

A. 

B. 

 

 
C. 

 

Employees - Basic Eligibility Employees may participate in the State Employee Group 
Insurance Program if they are scheduled to work at the University with an appointment 
of at least fifty percent (50%) time and lasting at least three (3) months in duration. 
Employees - Special Eligibility  The following employees are also eligible to participate 
in the Group Insurance Program. 
1. 

Employees With a Work-Related Injury/Disability.  An employee who was off the 
University  payroll  due  to  work-related  injury  or  work-related  disability  may 
continue  to  participate  in  the  Group  Insurance  Program  as  long  as  such  an 
employee  receives  Workers'  Compensation  payments,  or  while  the  Worker's 
Compensation claim is pending. 
Totally  Disabled  Employees.    Consistent  with  Minn.  Statute  62A.148,  certain 
totally  disabled  employees  may  continue  to  participate in the Group Insurance 
Program. 
Retired  Employees.    An  employee  who  retires  from  University  service,  is  not 
eligible for regular (non-disability) Medicare coverage, has five (5) or more years 
of  allowable  pension  service  and  is  entitled  at  the  time  of  retirement  to 
immediately receive an annuity under a State retirement program, may continue 
to  participate  in  the  health  and  dental  coverages  offered  through  the  Group 
Insurance Program. 

2. 

3. 

Consistent with Minn. Statute 43A.27, Subdivision 3, a retired employee of the 
University  who  receives  an  annuity  under  a  State  retirement  program  may 
continue  to  participate  in  the  health  and  dental  coverages  offered  through  the 
Group  Insurance  Program.    Retiree  coverage  must  be  coordinated  with 
Medicare. 

Dependents  Eligible dependents for the purposes of this Article are as follows: 
1. 

Spouse.  The spouse of an eligible employee (if not legally separated).  For the 
purposes  of  health  insurance  coverage,  if  that  spouse  works,  full  time  for  an 
organization  employing  more  than  one  hundred  (100)  people  and  elects  to 
receive either credits or cash (1) in place of health insurance or health coverage; 
or (2) in addition to a health plan with seven hundred fifty dollar ($750) or greater 
deductible  through  his/her  employing  organization,  s/he  is  not  eligible  to  be  a 
covered  dependent  under  medical  coverage  for  the  purposes  of  this  Article.  If 
both spouses work for the University or another organization participating in the 
State's  Group  Insurance  Program,  neither  spouse  may  be  covered  as  a 
dependent  by  the  other,  unless  one  spouse  is  not  eligible  for  a  full  Employer 
Contribution as defined in Section 3A. 
Children  and  Grandchildren.    An  eligible  employee's  unmarried  dependent 
children and unmarried dependent grandchildren:  (1) through age eighteen (18); 
or (2) through age twenty-four (24) if the child or grandchild is a full-time student 
at an accredited educational institution; or (3) a child or grandchild, regardless of 
age or marital status, who is incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason 
of  mental  retardation,  mental  illness  or  physical  disability  and  is  chiefly 
dependent on the employee for support.  The handicapped dependent shall be 
eligible  for  coverage  as  long  as  s/he  continues  to  be  handicapped  and 
dependent, unless coverage terminates under the contract. 

2. 

"Dependent Child" includes an employee's: (1) biological child, (2) child legally 
adopted  by  or  placed  for  adoption  with  the  employee,  (3)  foster  child,  and  (4) 

 

39

stepchild.    To  be  considered  a  dependent  child,  a  foster  child  must  be 
dependent on the employee for his/her principal support and maintenance and 
be  placed  by  the  court  in  the  custody  of  the  employee.    To  be  considered  a 
dependent child, a stepchild must maintain residence with the employee and be 
dependent upon the employee for his/her principal support and maintenance. 

"Dependent  Grandchild"  includes  an  employee's:    (1)  grandchild  placed  in  the 
legal custody of the employee, (2) grandchild legally adopted by the employee 
or  placed  for  adoption  with  the  employee,  or  (3)  grandchild  who  is  the 
dependent child of the employee's unmarried dependent child.  Under (1) and 
(3)  above,  the  grandchild  must  be  dependent  upon  the  employee  for  principal 
support and maintenance and live with the employee. 

If  both  spouses  work  for  the  University  or  another  organization  participating  in 
the  State's  Group  Insurance  Program,  either  spouse,  but  not  both,  may  cover 
their eligible dependent children or grandchildren.  This restriction also applies 
to  two  divorced,  legally  separated,  or  unmarried  employees  who  share  legal 
responsibility for their eligible dependent children or grandchildren. 

 

Continuation  Coverage    Consistent  with  state  and  federal  laws,  certain  employees, 
former  employees,  dependents,  and  former  dependents  may  continue  group  health, 
dental, and/or life coverage at their own expense for a fixed length of time. As of the 
date  of  this  Agreement,  state  and  federal  laws  allow  certain  group  coverages  to  be 
continued if they would otherwise terminate due to: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

Termination of employment (except for gross misconduct); 
Layoff; 
Reduction of hours to an ineligible status; 
Dependent  child  becoming  ineligible  due  to  change  in  age,  student  status, 
marital status, or financial support (in the case of a foster child or stepchild); 
Death of employee; or 
Divorce. 

5. 
6. 

 
SECTION  3.    ELIGIBILITY  FOR  EMPLOYER  CONTRIBUTION      This  section  describes 
eligibility for an Employer Contribution toward the cost of coverage. 
A. 

Full Employer Contribution - Basic Eligibility.  The following employees covered by this 
Agreement receive the full Employer Contribution: 
1. 

Employees  who  are  scheduled  to  work  at  least  thirty  (30)  hours  weekly  for  a 
period of nine (9) months or more in any twelve (12) consecutive months. 

 

 
D. 

B. 

40

Special Eligibility.  The following employees also receive an Employer Contribution: 
1. 

Employees  on  Layoff.    An  employee  who  receives  an  Employer  Contribution, 
who has three (3) or more years of continuous service, and who has been laid 
off  and  elects  not  to  participate  in  the  University  Termination/Severance  or 
Layoff/Non-Renewal  Program,  remains  eligible  for  an  Employer  Contribution 
and all other benefits provided under this Article for six (6) months from the date 
of layoff. 

2.  Work-Related  Injury/Disability.    An  employee  who  receives  an  Employer 
Contribution and who is off the University payroll due to a work-related injury or a 
work-related disability remains eligible for an Employer Contribution as long as 
such  an  employee  receives  Workers'  Compensation  payments.    If  such 
employee ceases to receive Workers' Compensation payments for the injury or 

 

disability  and  is  granted  medical  leave  under  Article  18,  Leaves  of  Absence, 
s/he shall be eligible for an Employer Contribution during that leave. 

 
C. 

Maintaining Eligibility for Employer Contribution. 
1. 

General.  An employee who receives an Employer Contribution maintains that 
eligibility  as  long  as  the  employee  meets  the  Employer  Contribution  eligibility 
requirements, and appears on a University payroll for a least one (1) full working 
day during each payroll period. This requirement does not apply to employees 
who  receive  an  Employer  Contribution  while  on  layoff  as  described  in  Section 
3B1,  or  while  eligible  for  Workers'  Compensation  payment  as  described  in 
Section 3B2. 
Unpaid  Leave  of  Absence.  If an employee is on an unpaid leave of absence, 
then  vacation  leave,  compensatory  time,  or  sick  leave  cannot  be  used  for  the 
purpose  of  maintaining  eligibility  for  an  Employer  Contribution  by  keeping  the 
employee on a University payroll for one (1) working day per pay period. 
School Year Employment.  If an employee is employed on the basis of a school 
year and such employment contemplates absences from the University payroll 
during  the  summer  months  or  vacation  periods  scheduled  by  the  Employer 
which  occur  during  the  regular  school  year,  the  employee  shall  nonetheless 
remain  eligible  for  an  Employer  Contribution,  provided  that  the  employee 
appears  on  the  regular  payroll  for  at  least  one  (1)  working  day  in  the  payroll 
period  immediately  preceding  such  absences  and  returns  to  work  in  the  pay 
period following the normal scheduled absence. 
An Employee who is on an approved FMLA leave or on a Voluntary Reduction in 
Hours  as  provided  elsewhere  in  this  Agreement  maintains  eligibility  for  an 
Employer contribution. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

2. 

3. 

 
SECTION  4.    AMOUNT  OF  EMPLOYER  CONTRIBUTION      For  employees  eligible  for  an 
Employer  Contribution  as  described  in  Section  3,  the  amount  of  the  Employer  Contribution 
will be determined as follows beginning on the first day of the 2000 insurance contract year.  
The  Employer  Contribution  amounts  and  rules  in  effect  on  June  30,  1999,  will  continue 
through the insurance contract year.  For purposes of this Article, the 2000 insurance contract 
year shall be the period beginning January 3, 2000 and ending December 31, 2000. 
 
A. 

Contribution Formula - Health Coverage. 
 
1. 

Employee  Coverage.  For employee health coverage, the Employer contributes 
an amount equal to the lesser of one hundred percent (100%) of the employee-
only  premium  of  the  Low  Cost  Health  Plan,  or  the  actual  employee-only 
premium of the health plan chosen by the employee. 
Dependent Coverage.  For dependent health coverage, the Employer contributes 
an  amount  equal  to  the  lesser  of  ninety  percent  (90%)  of  the  dependent 
premium of the Low Cost Health Plan, or the actual dependent premium of the 
health plan chosen by the employee. 
Low Cost Health Plan.  For the purposes of Section 4A, "Low Cost Health Plan" 
means  the  health  plan  with:    (1)  the  lowest  family  premium  rate;  and  (2) 
operating  in  the  county  of  the  employee's  permanent  work  location;  county  of 
residence  for  insurance  year  2001;  see  Section  4,  A,  4,  below.    "Family 
premium" is the total of the employee's premium and the dependent premium.  
A  list  of  the  Low  Cost  Health  Plan  for  each  county  for  the  2000  insurance 

 

41

4. 

contract year is available from the Employee Benefits Department.  During the 
2000  insurance  contract  year,  the  list  may  be  changed  only  if  the  Low  Cost 
Health Plan no longer operates in a county. 
Location as the Basis for Employer Contribution.  The Employer Contribution for 
each  employee  is  based  on  the  employee's  permanent  work  location  on  the 
effective  date  of  the  2000  insurance  year.  For  the  2001  insurance  year,  the 
Employer  Contribution  will  be  based  on  the  employee’s  county  of  permanent 
residence  (for  Minnesota  residents)  or  the  employee’s  county  of  permanent 
work location (for Minnesota non-residents).   If the health plan an employee is 
enrolled  in  is  not  available  at  the  new  permanent  work  location,  then  the 
Employer  Contribution  changes  to  the  amount  in  effect  at  the  new  permanent 
work location. 

Contribution Formula - Dental Coverage. 
1. 

An employee may change his/her health or dental plan if the employee changes to a 
new permanent work location, and the employee's current plan is not available at the 
new work location.  An employee who receives notification of a work location change 
between the end of an open enrollment period and the beginning of the next insurance 
year, may change his/her health or dental plan within thirty (30) days of the date of the 
relocation under the same provisions accorded during the last open enrollment period. 

An  employee,  and  a  retired  employee,  may  also  add  dependent  health  or  dental 
coverage  following  the  birth  of  a  child  or  dependent  grandchild,  or  following  the 
adoption of a child without regard to the 30 day enrollment period. 
In addition, an employee, and a retired employee may add dependent health or dental 
coverage within thirty (30) days of the following event: 
1. 

If  an  employee  or  retiree  becomes  married,  the  employee,  or  the  retiree  may 
add his/her spouse and any dependent children/grandchildren. 

 

Employee  Coverage.  For employee dental coverage, the Employer contributes 
an amount equal to the lesser of one hundred percent (100%) of the employee 
premium of the State Dental Plan, or the actual employee premium of the dental 
plan chosen by the employee. 
Dependent Coverage.  For dependent dental coverage, the Employer contributes 
an amount equal to the lesser of fifty percent (50%) of the dependent premium 
of  the  State  Dental  Plan,  or  the  actual  dependent  premium  of  the  dental  plan 
chosen by the employee. 

2. 

Contribution  Formula.  -  Basic  Life  Coverage.    For  employee  basic  life  coverage and 
accidental  death  and  dismemberment  coverage,  the  Employer  contributes  one 
hundred percent (100%) of the cost. 

 
SECTION 5.  COVERAGE CHANGES AND EFFECTIVE DATES 
A.  When Coverage May Be Chosen.  All employees must make their choice of employee 
health  and dental plans and choice of dependent coverage (if applicable) within sixty 
(60) calendar days of the date of initial employment in an insurance eligible position.  
When  health  and  dental  coverage  are  elected,  the  employee  will  automatically  be 
enrolled  in  basic  life  coverage.    Employees  who  become  eligible  for  a  full  employer 
contribution  must  make  their  choice  of  employee  health  and  dental  plans  and 
dependent coverage within sixty (60) calendar days of becoming eligible or be enrolled 
in the low cost plan in the county of the employee's work location. 

 
B. 

C. 

 

 

42

2. 

3.  

If the employee's spouse loses group health or dental coverage, the employee 
may add his/her spouse and any dependent children/ grandchildren. 
If  the  retiree’s  spouse  involuntarily  loses  group  health  or dental coverage, the 
retiree  may  add  his/her  spouse  and  any  dependent  children/grandchildren.  
(Spouse’s  loss  of  coverage  due  to  his/her  retirement  would  be  considered 
voluntary.) 

 
B.  When Coverage May Be Canceled.   
 

1. 

 

2. 

3. 

 
 

 
 
 

 
C. 
 

 

 

Dependent  Coverage.      An  employee  may  cancel  dependent  health  or 
dependent  dental  coverage  outside  of  open  enrollment  only  in  the  case  of 
certain life events that are consistent with the request to cancel coverage.  The 
request to cancel coverage must be made within thirty (30) calendar days of the 
event. Life events include, but are not limited to: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

loss of dependent status of a sole dependent; 
death of a sole dependent; 
divorce; 
change in employment condition of an employee or spouse; and 
a  significant  change  of  spousal  insurance coverage (cost of coverage is 
not a significant change) 

Dependent health or dependent dental coverage may also be canceled during 
the  open  enrollment  period  that  applies  to  each  type  of  plan  for  any  reason. 
Cancellation will take effect on the first day of the following insurance contract 
year. 

Employee  Coverage.    A  part-time  employee  may  also  cancel  employee 
coverage within thirty (30) days of when one of these same life events occurred. 

Effective  date  of  Benefit  Termination.    Medical  coverage  termination  will  take 
effect  on  the  first  of  the  month  following  the  end  of  the  pay  period  coinciding 
with or next following the date of application to cancel coverage, or the loss of 
eligible employee or dependent status.  All other benefit coverage terminations 
will take effect on the first day of the payperiod coinciding with or next following 
the date of the application to cancel coverage, or the loss of eligible employee or 
dependent status. 

Effective Date of Coverage. 
 1. 

Initial  Effective  Date.  The  initial  effective  date  of  coverage  under  the  Group 
Insurance Program is the first day of the first payroll period beginning on or after 
the  twenty-eighth  (28th)  calendar  day  following  the  employee's  first  day  of 
employment,  re-employment,  re-hire,  or reinstatement with the University.  An 
employee  must  be  actively  at  work  on  the  initial  effective  date  of  coverage, 
except  that  an  employee  who  is  on  paid  leave  on  the  date  University-paid life 
insurance  benefits  increase  is  also  entitled  to  the  increased  life  insurance 
coverage.    In  no  event  shall  an  employee's  dependent  coverage  become 
effective before the employee's coverage. 
 
If  an  employee  is  not  actively  at  work  due  to  employee  or  dependent  health 
status  or  medical  disability,  medical  and  dental  coverage will still take effect.  
(Life and disability coverage will be delayed until the employee returns to work.) 

 

43

2. 

 

2. 

3. 

 

 

 

D. 

E. 

44

Delay in Coverage Effective Date. 
a.  

Basic  Life.  If an employee is not actively at work on the initial effective 
date  of  coverage,  coverage will be delayed until the first day of the pay 
period  coinciding  with  or  next  following  the  employee’s  return  to  work.  
The  effective  date  of  a  change  in  coverage  is  not  delayed  in  the  event 
that, on the date the coverage change would be effective, an employee is 
on an unpaid leave of absence or layoff. 
Medical  and  Dental.  If an employee is not actively at work on the initial 
effective  date  of  coverage  due  to  a  reason  other  than  hospitalization  or 
medical  disability  of  the  employee  or  dependent,  medical  and  dental 
coverage  will  be  delayed  until  the  first  day  of  the  pay  period  coinciding 
with or next following the employee’s return to work. 

The  effective  date  of  a  change  in  coverage  is  not  delayed  in  the  event 
that, on the date of the coverage change would be effective, an employee 
is on an unpaid leave of absence or layoff. 

Optional  life  and  Disability  Coverages.  In order for coverage to become 
effective, the employee must be in active payroll status and not using sick 
leave  on  the  first  day of the pay period coinciding with or next following 
approval  by  the  insurance  company.    If  it  is  an  open  enrollment  period, 
coverage may be applied for but will not become effective until the first 
day  of  the  pay  period  coinciding  with  or  next  following  the employee's 
return to work in the following insurance contract year. 

b. 

 
 

c. 

Open Enrollment. 
1. 

Frequency  and  Duration.  There shall be an open enrollment period for health 
coverage  in  each  year  of  this  Agreement,  and  for  dental  coverage  in  the  first 
year of this Agreement.  Open enrollment periods shall last a minimum of thirty 
(30) calendar days.  Open enrollment changes become effective the first day of 
the following insurance contract year. 
Eligibility  to  Participate.    An  employee  eligible  to  participate  in  the  Group 
Insurance  Program,  as  described  in  Sections  2A  and  2B,  may  participate  in 
open  enrollment.    In  addition,  a  person  in  the  following  categories  may  as 
allowed  in  Section  5D1  make  certain  changes:    (1)  a  former  employee  or 
dependent  on  continuation coverage, as described in Section 2D, may change 
plans  or  add  coverage  for  health  and/or  dental  plans  on  the  same  basis  as 
active  employees;  and  (2)  an  early  retiree,  prior  to  becoming  eligible  for 
Medicare,  may  change  health  and/or  dental  plans  as  agreed  to  for  active 
employees, but may not add dependent coverage. 
Materials  for  Employee  Choice.    Each  year  prior  to  open  enrollment,  the 
Employer will give eligible employees the information necessary to make open 
enrollment selections.  Employees will be provided a statement of their current 
coverage each year of the contract. 

Coverage  Selection  Prior  to  Retirement.  An employee who retires and is entitled to 
receive  an  annuity  under  a  State  retirement  program  may  change  his/her  health  or 
dental plan during the sixty (60) calendar day period immediately preceding the date of 
retirement.  The employee may not add dependent coverage during this period.  The 
change takes effect on the first day of the first pay period beginning after the date of 
retirement. 

 

 
SECTION 6.  BASIC COVERAGES. 
 
A. 

Employee and Family Health Coverage. 
 
1. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coverage  Options.  Eligible employees may select coverage under any one of 
the  health  plans  offered  by  the  Employer,  including  the  State  Health  Plan,  or 
other health plans.  Coverage offered through these plans is subject to change 
during  the  life  of  this  Agreement  upon  approval  of  the  Employer  after 
consultation  with  the  Joint  Labor/Management  Committee  on  Health  Plans.  
However, actuarial reductions in the level of the other  plan coverages effective 
during the term of this Agreement, including increases in copayments, require 
approval of the Joint Labor/Management Committee on Health Plans.  Coverage 
offered through the State Health Plan is determined by Section 6A2. 

2. 

Coverage  Under  the  State  Health  Plan.  From July 1, 1999 through January 3, 
2000, coverage under the State Health Plan Point of Service and State Health 
Plan  Select  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  SHPPOS  and  SHPS,  respectively)  will 
continue at the level in effect on June 30, 1999.  Effective for the 2000 insurance 
contract year, SHPPOS and SHPS will cover allowable charges for the following 
eligible services subject to the copayments and coverage limits stated.  Services 
provided through both plans are subject to their managed care procedures and 
principles,  including  standards  of  medical  necessity  and  appropriate  practice.   
Effective  January  3,  2000,  all  other  plans  providing  services  to  University 
employees will have the same coverages as the SHPS. 

a. 

Services received from, or authorized by, a primary care physician within 
the primary care clinic.  State Health Plan Point of Service (SHPPOS) and 
State Health Plan Select (SHPS). 
The  following  health  care  services  under  SHPPOS  and  SHPS  shall  be 
received  from,  or  authorized  by  a  primary  care  physician  within  the 
primary  care  clinic.    The  primary  care  clinic  shall  be  selected  from 
approved clinics in accordance with SHPPOS and SHPS administrative 
procedures.  Higher out-of-pocket costs as described in 6A2b apply to the 
following  services  if  not  received  from,  or  authorized  by,  a  primary  care 
physician within the primary care clinic. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Inpatient hospital services.  One hundred (100) percent coverage. 

Outpatient  surgery  center  services.    One  hundred  (100)  percent 
coverage. 

Home health services.  One hundred (100) percent coverage up to 
a maximum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) in eligible expenses 
per person per year. 

X-rays and laboratory tests.  One hundred (100) percent coverage. 

Preventive Care.  One hundred (100) percent coverage. 

 

45

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. 

7. 

Physicians services.  One hundred (100) percent coverage. 

Durable medical equipment.  Eighty (80) percent coverage. 

* 

All diabetic supplies, including test tapes and syringes, are 
covered under durable medical equipment. 

b. 

Services  not  authorized  by  a  primary  care  physician  within  the  primary 
care  clinic.    Coverage  under  this  section  6A2b  is  only  available  to 
individuals who elect SHPPOS coverage, and then only under the terms 
and conditions outlined in the Certificate of Coverage. 

For  services  under  6A2a  which  are  not  authorized  by  a  primary  care 
physician within the primary care clinic in the 2000 and 2001 insurance 
years: 

•  There is a three hundred fifty dollar ($350) deductible per person with 
a maximum deductible per family per insurance contract year of seven 
hundred dollars ($700). 

After  deductible  is  satisfied,  seventy  (70)  percent  coverage  up  to  a 
maximum annual copayment of: 

•  Three thousand dollars ($3,000) per person and six thousand dollars 

($6,000) per family. 

These  deductibles  and  copayments  for  covered  services  not  authorized 
by  a  primary  care  physician  are  separate  from  any  deductibles  and 
copayments for authorized services and Select Network in state services 
under Section 6A2a or 6A2c. 

c. 

Special Service networks (applies to SHPPOS and SHPS). 

The  following  services  must  be  received  from  Special  Service  network 
providers in order to be covered. 

1. 

2. 

Mental  health  services  -  inpatient  and  outpatient.    One  hundred 
(100) percent coverage (up to 365 days for inpatient services.)  No 
coverage for services obtained from out-of-network providers under 
SHPS.    Out-of-network  services  are  available  under  SHPPOS 
according to the terms of the Certificate of Coverage.  In-network 
services need not be authorized by a primary care physician within 
the primary care clinic under either plan. 

Chemical  dependency  services  -  inpatient  and  outpatient.    One 
hundred  (100)  percent  coverage  (up  to  365  days  for  inpatient 
services.)    No  coverage  for  services  obtained  from out-of-network 
providers  under  SHPS.    Out-of-network  services  are  available 
under  SHPPOS  according  to  the  terms  of  the  Certificate  of 
Coverage.    In-network  services  need  not  be  authorized  by  a 

46

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

primary care physician within the primary care clinic under  either 
plan. 

Chiropractic  services.    One  hundred  (100)  percent  coverage.    No 
coverage  for  services  obtained  from  out-of-network  providers.  
Services need not be authorized by a primary care physician within 
the primary care clinic.  Coverage shall be provided for a minimum 
of 
twenty-one  (21)  calendar  days, 
whichever is greater, per incident. 

twenty  (20)  services  or 

Transplant  coverage.    The  SHPPOS  and  SHPS  shall  provide 
transplant coverage, as specified in their respective Certificates of 
Coverage.  No coverage for services obtained from out-of-network 
providers. 

Referrals  for  eligible  transplant  services  must  be  authorized  by  a 
primary care physician within the primary care clinic. 

Cardiac  services.    No  coverage  for  non-emergency  cardiac 
services  obtained  from  out-of-network  providers.    Referrals  for 
services must be authorized by a primary care physician within the 
primary care clinic. 

Home  Infusion  Therapy.    The  SHPPOS  and  SHPS  shall  provide 
Home  Infusion  Therapy  coverage  as  specified  in  their respective 
Certificates of Coverage.  No coverage for services obtained from 
out-of-network  providers.  Referrals  for  eligible  home  infusion 
therapy  services  must  be  authorized  by  a  primary  care  physician 
within the primary care clinic. 

Hospice Benefit.  One hundred (100) percent coverage for services 
obtained  from  the  in-network  providers.    Seventy  (70)  percent 
coverage for services obtained from out-of-network providers under 
SHPPOS.    Referrals  for  eligible  hospice  services  must  be 
authorized by a primary care clinic. 

d. 

Services not requiring authorization by a primary care physician within the 
primary care clinic. 

The  following  services  do  not  require  authorization  by  a  primary  care 
physician within the primary care clinic in order to be covered. 

1. 

Prescription drugs. 

  

  

Insulin  will  be  treated  as  a  prescription  drug  subject  to  a 
separate copay for each type prescribed. 

If  the  subscriber  chooses  a  brand  name  drug  when  a 
bioequivalent  generic  drug  is  available,  the  subscriber  is 
required to  pay the standard copayment plus the difference 

 

47

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

between the cost of the brand name drug and the generic.  
Amounts above the copay that an individual elects to pay for 
a brand name instead of a generic drug will not be credited 
toward the out-of-pocket maximum. 

a. 

SHPS and SHPPOS.  Prescription drugs.  For the 2000 and 
2001  insurance years: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b. 

  

  

  

ten dollar ($10) copayment per prescription or refill for 
a  formulary  drug  dispensed  in  a  thirty  four  (34)  day 
supply. 

twenty-one dollar ($21) copayment per prescription or 
refill  for  a  non-formulary  drug  dispensed  in  a  thirty-
four (34) day supply. 

annual  maximum  eligible  out  of  pocket  expense  for 
prescription drugs of two hundred dollars ($200) per 
person or four hundred dollars ($400) per family. 

Grandfathered  Diabetic  Group.    For  insulin  dependent 
diabetics who have been continuously enrolled in the State 
Health Plan since January 1, 1991 and who were identified 
as having used these supplies during the period January 1, 
1991 
the 
“Grandfathered  Diabetic  Group”),  diabetic  supplies  are 
covered at one hundred percent (100%) as follows: 

through  September  30,  1991 

(hereinafter 

2. 

3. 

4. 

•  Test  tapes  and  syringes  are  covered  at  one  hundred  (100) 
percent  for  the  greater  of  a  thirty  four  (34)  day  supply  or  one 
hundred (100) units when purchased with insulin.   

Eye  exams.    (SHPPOS  and  SHPS.)    One  hundred  (100)  percent 
coverage.  (Limited to one routine examination per year.) 

Outpatient  emergency  and  urgicenter  services  within  the  area.  
(SHPPOS  and  SHPS.)    Thirty dollar ($30) copayment per visit for 
outpatient emergency visits and fifteen dollar ($15) copayment per 
visit  for  urgicenter  visits  that  do  not  result  in  hospital  admission 
within twenty-four (24) hours; one hundred (100) percent coverage 
thereafter. 

Emergency and urgently needed care outside the area.  (SHPPOS 
and SHPS)  Professional services of a physician, emergency room 
treatment,  and  inpatient  hospital  services  covered  at  eighty  (80) 
percent of the first two thousand dollars ($2000) and one hundred 
(100) percent thereafter of the charges incurred per insurance year.  
The  maximum  eligible  out-of-pocket  expense  per  individual  per 
year for this benefit is $400.  This benefit is not available when the 

48

 

 

 

 

 
B. 
 

 

member’s  condition  permits  him  or  her  to  receive  care within the 
network of the plan in which the employee is enrolled. 

5. 

Ambulance.  (SHPPOS and SHPS.)  Eighty (80) percent coverage 
for eligible expenses.  (Air ambulance paid to ground ambulance 
coverage  limit  only,  unless  ordered  "first  response"  or  if  air 
ambulance is the only medically acceptable means of transport as 
certified by the attending physician.) 

e. 

Lifetime  maximum.    (SHPPOS  and  SHPS.)    Coverage  under  the  State 
Health  Plan  is  subject  to  a  per-person  lifetime  maximum.    The  lifetime 
maximum  is  two  million  dollars  ($2,000,000)  for  services  under  6A2a, 
6A2c  and  6A2d  combined.    The  lifetime  maximum  for  services  under 
6A2b  is  limited  to  five  hundred  thousand  dollars  ($500,000).    The  five 
hundred thousand dollar ($500,000) maximum which applies under 6A2b 
is  part  of,  and  not  in  addition  to,  the  two  million  dollar  ($2,000,000) 
lifetime plan maximum. 

3. 

Coordination with Workers' Compensation.  When an employee has incurred an 
on-the-job  injury  or  an  on-the-job  disability  and  has  filed  a  claim  for  workers' 
compensation, medical costs connected with the injury or disability shall be paid 
by the employee's health plan, pursuant to M.S. 176.191, Subdivision 3. 

Employee and Family Dental Coverage. 

1. 

Coverage  Options.    Eligible  employees  may  select coverage under any one of 
the  dental  plans  offered  by  the  Employer,  including  health  maintenance 
organization  plans,  the  State  Dental  Plan,  or  other  dental  plans.    Coverage 
offered  through  health  maintenance  organization  plans  is  subject  to  change 
during  the  life  of  this  Agreement  upon  action  of  the  health  maintenance 
organization  and  approval  of  the  Employer  after  consultation  with  the  Joint 
Labor/Management Committee on Health Plans.  However, actuarial reductions 
in  the  level  of  HMO  coverages  effective  during  the  term  of  this  Agreement, 
including 
the  Joint 
Labor/Management Committee on Health Plans.  Coverage offered through the 
State Dental Plan is determined by Section 6B2. 

in  copayments,  require 

the  approval  of 

increases 

3.   Coverage  Under  the  State  Dental  Plan.    The  State  Dental  Plan  will  provide  the 

following coverage: 

 

a. 

Copayments.  Effective with the 2000 insurance contract year, the State 
Dental Plan will cover allowable charges for the following services subject 
to the copayments and coverage limits stated.  Higher out-of-pocket costs 
apply  to  services  obtained  from  dental  care  providers  not  in  the  State 
Dental  Plan  network.    Services  provided  through  the  State  Dental  Plan 
are  subject  to  the  State  Dental  Plan's  managed  care  procedures  and 
principles,  including  standards  of  dental  necessity  and  appropriate 
practice.    The  plan  shall  cover  general  cleaning  two  (2)  times  per  plan 
year and special cleanings (root or deep cleaning) as prescribed by the 
dentist. 

 

49

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
C. 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

50

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

b. 

c. 

d. 

 

 

Services 
Diagnostic/Preventive 
 
Fillings 
  
 
Endodontics   
 
Periodontics   
 
Oral Surgery  
 
 
Crowns 
Prosthetics 
 
 
Prosthetic Repairs   
Orthodontics* 
 

In-Network  Out-of-Network 
100%   
80% 
 
 
80% 
 
80% 
80% 
 
 
80% 
 
50% 
 
50% 
80% 
 

50% 
50% 
50% 
50% 
50% 
50% 
None 
None 
50% 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

*Please refer to your certificate of coverage for information regarding age 
limitations for dependent orthodontic care. 

Deductible.  An  annual  deductible  of  one  hundred  twenty-five  dollars 
($125) per person applies to State Dental Plan services received from out 
of network providers.  The deductible must be satisfied before coverage 
begins. 

Annual  maximums.    State  Dental  Plan  coverage  is  subject  to  a  one 
thousand dollar ($1,000) annual maximum in benefits payable (excluding 
orthodontia) per person.  "Annual" means per insurance year. 

Orthodontia  lifetime  maximum.      Orthodontia  benefits  are  available  to 
eligible dependent children ages 8 through 18 subject to a two thousand 
eight hundred ($2,800) lifetime maximum benefit. 

Employee Life Coverage. 

1. 

Basic Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Coverage.  The Employer 
agrees  to  provide  and  pay  for  the  following  term  life  coverage  and  accidental 
death and dismemberment coverage for all employees eligible for an Employer 
Contribution, as described in Section 3.  Any premium paid by the University in 
excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) coverage is subject to a tax liability in 
accord  with  Internal  Revenue  Service  regulations.    An  employee  may  decline 
coverage in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) by filing a waiver in accord 
with  Department  of  Employee  Benefits  procedures.    The  basic  life  insurance 
policy will include an accelerated benefits agreement providing for payment of 
benefits prior to death if the insured has a terminal condition. 

Employee's   

Annual Base  
Salary  
 

 

$10,000 - $15,000 
$15,001 - $20,000 
$20,001 - $25,000 
$25,001 - $30,000 
$30,001 - $35,000 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Group Life 

Insurance 
Coverage 

$15,000 
$20,000 
$25,000 
$30,000 
$35,000 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 Accidental Death 

and Dismemberment 
 Principal Sum 

 
 
 
 
 

$15,000 
$20,000 
$25,000 
$30,000 
$35,000 

$35,001 - $40,000 
$40,001 - $45,000 
$45,001 - $50,000 
$50,001 - $55,000 
$55,001 - $60,000 
$60,001 - $65,000 
$65,001 - $70,000 
Over $70,000 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

$40,000 
$45,000 
$50,000 
$55,000 
$60,000 
$65,000 
$70,000 
$75,000 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

$40,000 
$45,000 
$50,000 
$55,000 
$60,000 
$65,000 
$70,000 
$75,000 

Extended  Benefits.  An employee who becomes totally disabled before age 70 
shall  be  eligible  for  the  extended  benefit provisions of the life insurance policy 
until age 70.  Employees who were disabled prior to July 1, 1983, and who have 
continuously received benefits shall continue to receive such benefits under the 
terms of the policy in effect prior to July 1, 1983. 

Additional  Death  Benefit.  Employees who retire on or after July 1, 1985, shall 
be entitled to a five hundred dollar ($500) death benefit payable to a beneficiary 
designated by the employee, if at the time of death the employee is entitled to 
an annuity under a State retirement program.  A five hundred dollar ($500) cash 
death benefit shall also be payable to the designated beneficiary of an employee 
who  becomes  totally  and  permanently  disabled  on  or  after  July  1,  1985,  and 
who at the time of death is receiving a State disability benefit and is eligible for a 
deferred annuity under a State retirement program. 

 
SECTION 7.  OPTIONAL COVERAGES. 
 
A. 
 

Life Coverage. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2. 

3. 

2. 

3. 

 

 

 

1. 

Employee.    An  employee  may  purchase  up  to  five  hundred  thousand  dollars 
($500,000) additional life insurance, in increments established by the Employer, 
subject to satisfactory evidence of insurability.  A new employee may purchase 
up  to  two  (2)  times  annual  salary  or  $200,000,  whichever  is  less,  in  optional 
employee life coverage within sixty (60) calendar days of hire or the date of first 
becoming eligible, without evidence of insurability.   

Spouse.    An  employee  may  purchase  up  to  five  hundred  thousand  dollars 
($500,000) life insurance coverage for his/her spouse in increments established 
by  the  Employer,  subject  to  satisfactory  evidence  of  insurability.    A  new 
employee  may  purchase  either  five  thousand  dollars  ($5,000)  or  ten  thousand 
dollars ($10,000) in optional spouse life coverage within sixty (60) calendar days 
of hire without evidence of insurability.  

Children/Grandchildren.    An  employee  may  purchase  life  insurance  in  the 
amount  of  ten  thousand  dollars  ($10,000)  as  a  package  for  all  eligible 
children/grandchildren 
this  Article).  
Child/grandchild coverage requires evidence of insurability if application is made 
after  the  first  sixty  (60)  calendar  days  of  employment  or  initial  eligibility.  
Child/grandchild coverage commences fourteen (14) calendar days after birth. 

in  Section  2C  of 

(as  defined 

 

51

4. 

Accelerated  Life.    The  additional  employee,  spouse  and  child  life  insurance 
policies will include an accelerated benefits agreement providing for payment of 
benefits prior to death if the insured has a terminal condition. 

5.  Waiver of Premium.  In the event an employee becomes totally disabled before 
age seventy (70), there shall be a waiver of premium until age seventy (70) for 
all life insurance coverage that the employee had at the time of disability. 

6. 

Paid Up Life Policy.  At age sixty-five (65) or the date of retirement, an employee 
who  has  carried  optional  employee  life  insurance  for  the  five  (5)  consecutive 
years immediately preceding the date of the employee’s retirement or age sixty-
five (65), whichever is later, shall receive a post-retirement paid-up life insurance 
policy  in  an  amount  equal  to  fifteen  (15)  percent  of  the  smallest  amount  of 
optional  employee  life  insurance  in  force  during  that  five  (5)  year  period.    The 
employee’s post-retirement death benefit shall be effective as of the date of the 
employee’s  retirement  or  the  employee  age  sixty-five (65), whichever is later.  
Employees who retire prior to age sixty-five (65) must be immediately eligible to 
receive a state retirement annuity and must continue their optional employee life 
insurance to age sixty-five (65) in order to remain eligible for the employee post-
retirement death benefit. 

An  employee  who  has  carried  optional  spouse  life  insurance  for  the  five  (5) 
consecutive years immediately preceding the date of the employee’s retirement 
or the date the spouse attains age sixty-five (65), whichever is later, shall receive 
a post-retirement paid-up life insurance policy in an amount equal to fifteen (15) 
percent of the smallest amount of optional spouse life insurance in force during 
that  five  (5)  year  period.    The  spouse  post-retirement  death  benefit  shall  be 
effective  as  of  the  date  of  the  employee’s  retirement  or  the  date  the  spouse 
attains  age  sixty-five (65), whichever is later.  The employee must continue the 
full  amount  of  optional  spouse  life  insurance  to  the  date  of  the  employee’s 
retirement or the date the spouse attains age sixty-five (65), whichever is later, in 
order to remain eligible for the spouse post-retirement death benefit. 

Each policy remains separate and distinct, and amounts may not be combined 
for the purpose of increasing the amount of a single policy. 

Disability Coverage. 
 
1. 

Short-term  Disability  Coverage.    An  employee  may  purchase  short-term 
disability coverage that provides benefits of from three hundred dollars ($300) to 
five thousand dollars ($5,000) per month, but no more than two-thirds (2/3) of an 
employee's salary, for up to one hundred eighty (180) calendar days during total 
disability  due  to  a  non-occupational  accident  or  a  non-occupational sickness.  
Benefits are paid from the first day of a disabling injury or from the eighth day of 
a  disabling  sickness.    Coverage  applied  for  within  sixty  (60)  days  of  hire  or 
becoming insurance eligible does not require evidence of insurability. 

2. 

Long-term  Disability  Coverage.    New  employees  may  enroll  in  long-term 
disability insurance within sixty (60) days of employment or insurance eligibility.  
The terms are the same as for employees who wish to add/increase during the 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B. 

 

52

annual  open  enrollment.    During  open  enrollment  only,  an  employee  may 
purchase  long-term  disability  coverage  that  provides  benefits  of  from  two 
hundred dollars ($200) to five thousand dollars ($5,000) per month, based on the 
employee's  salary,  commencing  on  the  181st  calendar  day  of  total  disability, 
and  not  subject  to  evidence  of  insurability  but  with  a  limited  term  pre-existing 
condition exclusion.  Employees should be aware that other wage replacement 
benefits,  as  described  in  the  certificate  of  coverage  (i.e.,  Social  Security 
Disability, Minnesota State Retirement Disability, etc.), may result in a reduction 
of  the  monthly  benefit  levels  purchased.    In  any  event,  the  minimum  is  the 
greater of three hundred dollars ($300) or fifteen percent (15%) of the amount 
purchased.    The  minimum  benefit  will  not  be  reduced  by  any  other  wage 
replacement benefits.   In the event that the employee becomes totally disabled 
before age seventy (70), the premiums on this benefit shall be waived according 
to the certificate of coverage. 

Accidental  Death  and  Dismemberment  Coverage.    An  employee  may  purchase 
accidental death and dismemberment coverage that provides principal sum benefits in 
amounts ranging from five thousand dollars ($5,000) to one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000).  Payment is made only for accidental bodily injury or death and may vary, 
depending upon the extent of dismemberment.  An employee may also purchase from 
five thousand dollars ($5,000) to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in coverage for 
his/her spouse, but not in excess of the amount carried by the employee. 

 Continuation of Optional Coverages During Unpaid Leave or Layoff.  An employee who 
takes  an  unpaid  leave  of  absence  or  who  is  laid  off  may  discontinue  premium 
payments  on  optional  policies  during  the  period  of  leave  or  layoff.    If  the  employee 
returns  within  one  (1)  year,  the  employee  shall  be  permitted  to  pick  up  all  optionals 
held prior to the leave or layoff.  For purposes of reinstating such optional coverages, 
the following limitations shall be applicable: 

For  the  first  24  months  of  short-term  and/or  long-term disability coverage after 
such  a  period  of  leave  or  layoff  during  which  short-term  or  long-term disability 
coverage was discontinued, any such disability coverage shall exclude coverage 
for  certain  pre-existing  conditions.    For  disability  purposes,  a  pre-existing 
condition  is  defined  as  any  disability  which  is  caused  by,  or  results  from,  any 
injury,  sickness  or  pregnancy  which  occurred,  was  diagnosed,  or  for  which 
medical care was received during the period of leave or layoff.  In addition, any 
pre-existing condition limitations that would have been in effect under the policy 
but for the discontinuance of coverage shall continue to apply as provided in the 
policy. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 

 
The  limitations  set  forth  above  do  not  apply  to  leaves  that  qualify  under  the  Family Medical 
Leave Act (FMLA). 
 
SECTION 8. HEALTH PROMOTION AND HEALTH EDUCATION.  Upon request of the Union, 
the  Employer  shall  meet  and  confer  on  health  promotion  and  education  issues.    Agenda 
items  shall  include  but  are  not  limited  to  smoking  cessation,  weight  loss,  stress 
management, health education/self care, employee participation in programs, and education 
on related benefits provided through the State Health Plan and other plans. 
 

 

53

 
STATEMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
 
The University and the Union recognize that from time to time work related problems will arise 
in employment relationships not specifically addressed in this agreement.  Because solutions 
to  these  problems  enhance  the  quality  of  work  for  employees  and  the  effectiveness of the 
University's  programs,  the  parties  wish  to  encourage  the  expeditious  resolution  of  such 
problems in the spirit of partnership and mutual respect. 
 
In  pursuit  of  this  joint  understanding,  the  parties  encourage  resolution  of  such  problems 
consistent with the following principles: 
 

•  Employees  and  supervisors  are  encouraged  to  seek  resolution  of  work-related 

problems at the lowest possible level. 

 
•  Given  that  open  communication  between  those  involved  is  essential  in  trying  to 
reach  solutions  acceptable  to  all  involved,  and  since  confidential  treatment  of 
information fosters open communication, it is imperative that those who participate 
in  problem-solving  respect  the  privacy  of  individuals  involved  and  agree  to  treat 
issues in a confidential manner to the extent provided by law. 

 
•  Those  directly  involved  in  the  matter  have  an  opportunity  to  be  heard  when 

participating in a problem-solving process. 

 
•  The process of problem resolution is intended to be flexible and should encourage 
the  use  of  all  resources  appropriate  to  the  specific  issues  including  existing 
University committees or conflict resolution/problem-solving resources. 

 
•  Employee  assistance  programs  available  at  the  University  may  be  helpful  for 
employee(s) experiencing problems.  The parties should inform employee(s) about 
employee assistance programs available at the University. 

 
These  statements  of  philosophy  are  not  subject  to  the  grievance  procedure  nor  shall  either 
party present this statement to an arbitrator as evidence or argument in connection with any 
disputes that may go to arbitration. 
 
SECTION 1.  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
A. 

A  grievance  shall  be  defined  as  an  alleged  violation  of  the  expressed  terms  of  this 
Agreement. 

ARTICLE 21 

SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 

 
B. 
 
C. 

 

54

The term "days" as used in this Article shall mean calendar days. 

Any member of University management referenced below may specify a designee at 
least at the next higher management level than where the prior step of the grievance 
was heard 

 

D. 

 
E. 

To  appeal  disciplinary  action  resulting  in  discharge,  a  grievance  shall  be  initiated at 
Step Two. 

Upon  mutual  written  agreement  between  Human  Resources  and  the  Union,  a 
grievance may be initiated at any Step in this procedure or steps may be waived. 

 
SECTION 2.  PROBLEM SOLVING 
 
Employees and supervisors are encouraged to attempt to resolve on an informal basis, at the 
earliest opportunity, a problem that could lead to a grievance.  If the matter is not resolved by 
informal  discussion,  or  a  problem  solving  meeting  does  not  occur,  it  may  be  settled  in 
accordance  with  the  grievance  procedure.    Unless  mutually  agreed  between  the  Employer 
and  the  Union  problem  solving  discussions  shall  not  extend  the  deadlines  for  filing  a 
grievance. 
 
The  Union  Steward  or  in  his/her  absence,  the  Local  Union  President,  or  Area  Steward,  or 
Chief Steward, either with the employee or alone, shall present to the appropriate supervisor 
a written request for a meeting.  If the supervisor agrees to a problem-solving meeting, this 
meeting  shall  be  held  within  fourteen  (14)  calendar  days  of  receipt  of  the  request.    The 
supervisor,  employee,  Union  Steward,  and  up  to  one  (1)  other  management  person  shall 
attempt  to  resolve  the  problem  through  direct  and  forthright  communication.    If  another 
member of management is present that person will not be hearing the grievance at Step Two, 
should it progress to that Step. 
 
The employee, the Union Steward or in his/her absence, the Local Union President, or Area 
Steward,  or  Chief  Steward,  may  participate  in  problem  solving  activities  on  paid  time,  in 
accordance with Article 31, Union Rights, Section 1H. 
 
SECTION 3.  GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
 
Employees and supervisors are encouraged to attempt to resolve on an informal basis, at the 
earliest opportunity, a problem that could lead to a grievance.  If the matter is not resolved by 
informal  discussion,  it  shall  be  settled  in  accordance  with  the  following  procedure.    (These 
informal discussions shall not extend the deadlines for filing a grievance.) 
 
All written grievances shall contain the following (Step 1 grievances are not expected to be in 
writing and do not require detailing of the items listed below): 
 

a) 
b) 
c) 

d) 
e) 

name(s) of the grievant or grievants, if applicable; 
a brief summary of the facts giving rise to the alleged violation; 
citation  of  the  section  or  subsections  of  this  Agreement; alleged to have been 
violated; 
the date of the alleged violation; 
the specific remedy requested. 

 
Any  written  grievance  filed  at  Step  Two  or  Three  not  in  accordance  with  the  above 
requirements may be denied on the basis of improper filing and may be appealed to the next 
Step in accordance with this procedure. 
 

 

55

Step  One.    The  Union  Steward  alleging  a  violation  of  the  express  terms  of  this  Agreement 
shall within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the event or knowledge of the event giving rise 
to  the  grievance,  present  to  the  appropriate  supervisor  a  written  request  for  a  Step  One 
meeting.    If  no  problem-solving meeting has been held pursuant to Section 2 of this Article, 
the written request shall include a brief description of the issues of concern.    If  a  problem-
solving meeting has been held, the grievance shall be reduced to writing and shall include the 
information listed in “a” through “e” of this Section prior to the scheduling of the grievance.  
This meeting shall be held within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of the request.  The 
supervisor, employee(s), and Union steward shall attempt to resolve the grievance.  If desired 
by the supervisor, another member of management may be present so long as that person 
will not be hearing the grievance at Step Two, should it progress to that Step.  The parties are 
limited  to  one  (1)  representative  each  present  on  Employer  paid  time,  in  addition  to  the 
grievant and the supervisor. 
 
The supervisor shall respond to the grievant with a copy of the response to the Steward within 
fourteen (14) calendar days following the meeting.  If the grievance remains unresolved, the 
Union may submit it to Step Two. 
 
Step Two.  The written grievance shall be filed with the head of the unit (or the supervisor at 
the  next  management  level,  if  the  head  of  the  unit  is  the  grievant’s  immediate  supervisor) 
within fourteen (14) calendar days of when the Step One response was due and a copy shall 
be  forwarded  to  the  appropriate  Human  Resources  Department.    If  no  Step  One  response 
was given, the grievance shall be filed within fourteen (14) calendar days of when a Step Two 
response was due.   
 
A  representative  of  the  appropriate  Human  Resources  Department  shall  hold  a  meeting 
between  the  head  of  the  unit,  the  grievant,  and  the  designated  union  representative  on 
Employer paid time to discuss and attempt to resolve the grievance.  This meeting shall be 
held  within  fourteen  (14)  calendar  days  of  the  receipt  of  the  Step  Two  grievance.    Within 
fourteen (14) calendar days of the meeting,  the head of the unit shall provide a decision in 
writing  to  the  grievant  and  the  union  representative  with  a  copy  to  the  appropriate  Human 
Resources Department.  The parties are limited to two (2) representatives each, in addition to 
the grievant and the supervisor. 
 
If the grievant remains unresolved, the Union may submit it to Step Three as described below. 
 
Step Three.  The grievance shall be submitted to the Dean or equivalent administrative officer 
at the next management level within fourteen (14) calendar days from the time the Step Two 
answer  was  due  and  a  copy  shall  be  forwarded  to  the  appropriate  Human  Resources 
Department.  If no Step Two response was given, the grievance shall be filed within fourteen 
(14) calendar days of when Step two response was due.  A representative of the appropriate 
Human  Resources  Department  shall  hold  a  meeting  between  a  Dean  or  equivalent 
administrative officer at the next management level, the grievant, and the designated Union 
representative  to  discuss  and  attempt  to  resolve the grievance.  This meeting shall be held 
within fourteen (14) calendar days of the receipt of the Step Three grievance.  The Union or 
the University may also request additional relevant information from employees other than the 
Grievant.  However, these employees may not be required to present information. 
 
Within  fourteen  (14)  calendar  days  of  the  meeting,  the  Dean  or  equivalent  administrative 
officer shall provide a decision, in writing, to the grievant and the Union representative with a 

56

 

copy  to  the  appropriate  Human  Resources  Department.  The  parties  are  limited  to  two  (2) 
representatives each, in addition to the grievant and the supervisor. 
 
An issue not raised by the Union in the Step Three grievance shall not proceed to arbitration 
unless mutually agreed between the parties. 
 
If the matter is not resolved, or if no decision is rendered within fourteen (14) calendar days of 
the meeting, the Union may file a letter of intent to arbitrate within sixty (60) calendar days of 
when the Step Three response was due.  This letter shall be sent to the appropriate Human 
Resources Department.  
 
The  Union  will  make  a  good  faith  effort  to  reduce  the  sixty  (60)  calendar  day  time  limit 
whenever possible and particularly in cases involving a continuing back pay liability. 
 
Step  Four.  Within ten (10) calendar days from the Union's request for arbitration the Union 
and  the  University  shall  select  an  arbitrator  from  an  agreed  upon  list  of  arbitrators.    The 
University and the Union may mutually agree to an arbitrator outside their agreed upon list. 
 
If the parties are unable to agree on a list of arbitrators, then the parties shall select, within ten 
(10) calendar days of the Union's request for arbitration, an arbitrator from a panel provided by 
the Bureau of Mediation Services or the American Arbitration Association.  The parties shall 
have ten (10) calendar days following receipt of the list to select an arbitrator in the following 
manner:  The Union shall have the right to strike one name from the list, the University shall 
then strike one name, and the process will be repeated and the remaining person shall be the 
arbitrator. 
 
The arbitrator will then be jointly notified by the parties of selection with a request for available 
hearing  dates.    The  parties  agree  that  arbitration  hearings  involving  possible  monetary 
liabilities shall be given first priority in scheduling. 
 
SECTION 4.  GENERAL ARBITRATION PROVISIONS 
 
A. 

The  arbitration  proceeding  shall  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  rules  and 
procedures  of 
the  Bureau  of  Mediation  Services  or  the  American  Arbitration 
Association depending upon the list from which the arbitrator is selected. 

 
B. 
 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

 
F. 

The cost of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the parties. 

The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding subject to review in accordance 
with the applicable standards for judicial review. 

Each  party  shall  be  responsible  for  compensating  its  own  representatives  and 
witnesses. 

If either party desires a verbatim record of the arbitration proceeding, it may cause such 
a  record  to  be  made,  provided  it  pays  for  the  record  and  makes  a  copy  available 
without charge to the other party and the arbitrator. 

If the parties mutually agree, they may request assistance from a Bureau of Mediation 
Services neutral and/or may establish procedures for expedited arbitration.  

 

57

 
SECTION 5.  LIMITS ON THE ARBITRATOR'S AUTHORITY 
 
The arbitrator shall have no power to: 
 
A. 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

Rule  on  an  issue  excluded  by  this  Agreement  from  the  scope  of  the  grievance 
procedure; 

Amend,  modify,  nullify,  ignore,  add  to,  or  subtract  from  the  provisions  of  this 
Agreement; 

Issue  a  back  pay  award  for  an  amount  that  includes  payment  prior  to  the  date  the 
grievance was required to be filed under this Article; 

Establish wage schedules (the Employer can set and implement rates for new classes 
and the Union can grieve the rate(s)); 

Make decisions contrary to or inconsistent with or modifying or varying in any way from 
the law or the application of the law. 

 
The arbitrator shall issue the award within thirty (30) calendar days of the Step Four hearing. 
 
SECTION 6.  TIME LIMITS 
 
Should the Union fail to institute a grievance within the time limits specified, the grievance will 
not be processed and will be considered "waived."  Should the Union fail to appeal a decision 
within the time limits specified, it shall be considered settled on the basis of the Employer's 
last answer and all further proceedings shall be dropped. 
 
Unavailability  of  the  designated  Union  representative  shall  not  waive  the  time  limits  herein 
except  as  provided.  If  the  University  fails  to  respond  to  a  grievance  within  the  time  limits 
specified, the grievance shall be considered denied at that Step and may be appealed to the 
next Step within the time frame specified.  The time limits and sequence of steps provided in 
this  Article  shall  be  strictly  observed  but  may  be  extended  or  modified  by  prior  written 
agreement of the parties. 
 
SECTION 7.  PROCESSING 
 
All preparation and investigation of grievances shall be held when the grievant and Union 
representative are on non-work time. The designated Union representative and the grievant 
may attend grievance meetings with the University administrative designee(s) during working 
hours without loss of pay. 

 
 

 
STATEMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
 

ARTICLE 22 
DISCIPLINE 

58

 

If  supervisors  notice  work-related  behavior  problems,  they  are  encouraged  to  bring  these 
problems  to  the  attention  of  the  employee.    When  such  communication takes place before 
disciplinary  action  is  initiated,  it  may  often  be  sufficient  to  correct  the  work-related behavior 
problems.  Employees or supervisors are encouraged to consult Union or Human Resource 
representatives in order to help solve the problem.     
 
These  statements  of  philosophy  are  not  subject  to  the  grievance  procedure nor shall either 
party present this statement to an arbitrator as evidence or argument in connection with any 
disputes that may go to arbitration. 
 
SECTION 1.  DISCIPLINE FOR JUST CAUSE 
 
Disciplinary action shall be taken only for just cause, however probationary employees may 
be discharged without just cause and shall have no right to grieve discharge (see Article 7, 
Probationary  Period).    Disciplinary  action,  except  discharge,  shall  have  as  its  purpose  the 
correction or elimination of incorrect work-related behavior by an employee.   
 
Supervisors may not take disciplinary action against an employee who, in good faith, reports 
a violation of any federal or state law or regulation to a governmental body or law enforcement 
official.    Disciplinary  action  may  not  be  taken  against  an  employee  who  is  requested  by  a 
public  agency  to  participate  in  an  investigation,  hearing,  or  inquiry  as  well  as  an  employee 
who  refuses  to  participate  in  any  activity  that  the  employee,  in  good  faith,  believes  violates 
state or federal law. 
 
SECTION 2.  COACHING 
 
The normal corrective disciplinary procedure shall consist of three (3) steps, except that initial 
minor work deficiencies will normally be privately brought to the employee's attention through 
coaching.  Coaching may include, but is not limited to instructions, directions, or prompting to 
the  employee.    Coaching  provides  feedback  on  job  performance  and  is  intended  to  be 
corrective and constructive.  Coaching shall not be considered disciplinary. 
 
SECTION 3.  INVESTIGATORY MEETING 
 
Twenty-four  (24)  hours  notice  of  investigatory  meetings  shall  be  given  to  the  employee 
whenever possible.  Upon request, the employee is entitled to a Union representative at an 
investigatory meeting which may result in disciplinary action against the employee.  However, 
neither the refusal of the employee's Union Steward or Union representative to participate nor 
their  unavailability  shall  abridge  the  Employer's  right  to  conduct  an  investigation.    The 
Employer  shall  provide  a  written  summary of the investigation results to the employee, and 
the Union if it is involved in representing the employee during the investigation within seven 
(7) days of the conclusion of the investigation.  Investigation results may include, but are not 
limited to, exoneration of the employee or the conclusion that disciplinary action is not to be 
taken  at  this  time.    Where  a  change  in  policy  or  procedure  is  made  as  a  result  of  the 
investigation,  the  Employer  will  provide  written  notification  of  the  change  to  all  affected 
employees. 
 
SECTION 4.  DISCIPLINARY MEETING 
 

 

59

Supervisors  shall  give  employees  a  forty-eight  (48)  hour  notice,  whenever  possible,  of 
planned  disciplinary  meetings.      If  the  Steward  and  the  employee  agree,  the  disciplinary 
meeting  can  be  held  less  than  forty-eight  (48)  hours  after  notification,  but  the  Steward  or 
employee  cannot  refuse  to  hold  an  immediate  meeting  if  circumstances  require  it. 
Supervisors shall give employees the opportunity to have a Union Steward present for an oral 
warning, a written warning, a notice of suspension, or a notice of discharge. Employees will 
be  given  an  opportunity  to  hear  the  evidence  and  respond  to  the  evidence  supporting 
suspension  or  discharge  while  still  in  pay  status.  Non  supervisory  coworkers,  other  than  a 
Union  Steward  of  the  employee's  choice,  shall  not  be  present  in  another  employee's 
disciplinary meeting. 
 
In  cases  of  immediate  suspension  or  discharge,  the  supervisor  will  meet  with  the  Steward 
and employee prior to the employee being required to leave the facility. However, neither the 
refusal  of  the  Union  Steward  to  participate  nor  his/her  unavailability  shall  abridge  the 
Employer's right to take disciplinary action. 
 
SECTION 5.  CONFIDENTIAL NATURE OF DISCIPLINE 
 
Disciplinary action taken by the Employer should be conducted away from coworkers and the 
public,  except  that  action  taken  in  accordance  with  Section  5  of  this  Article  shall  not  be  a 
violation  of  this  provision.    Disciplinary  investigations  and  meetings  are  to  be  treated 
confidentially by all concerned.  The University may release public information on disciplinary 
action(s)    per  the  Minnesota  Government  Data  Practices  Act  and/or  other  applicable  law.  
Grievances citing violation of only this section shall not result in a remedy that overturns the 
disciplinary action. 
 
SECTION 6.  CORRECTIVE DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE 
 
The normal corrective disciplinary procedure shall consist of three (3) steps, except that initial 
minor  work  deficiencies  shall  be  privately  brought  to  the  employee's  attention  through 
coaching. 
 
Both  parties  agree  that  the  order  of  discipline  below  is  the  progressive  order  of  discipline; 
however, situations may arise where it will be appropriate to depart from this order. 
 

A. 

An  oral  warning  shall  be  given  to  the  employee  specifying  the  nature  of  any 
incorrect work-related behavior and pointing out that non-correction will result in 
further  disciplinary  action.    Oral  warnings  shall  be  documented  by  use  of  a 
standard University form that shall be sent to the department/administrative unit 
file with a copy provided to the employee. 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 

60

A  written  warning  shall  be  given  to  the  employee  specifying  the  nature  of  any 
continuing  incorrect  work-related  behavior  and  pointing  out  that  non-correction 
will result in further disciplinary action. 

A notice of suspension shall be given to the employee with a written explanation 
specifying  the  nature  of  any  continuing  incorrect  work-related  behavior  and 
pointing out that non-correction will result in further disciplinary action. 

 

Discipline beyond oral warning will be documented in writing to the employee with a copy to 
his/her  official  personnel  file.    The  employee  shall  sign  a  standard  University  form  to 
acknowledge discipline has occurred and shall receive a copy of the form and any accompa-
nying  letters.    However,  refusal  of  the  employee  to  sign  the  form  will  not  invalidate  the 
disciplinary action.  A copy of the written statement(s) will be provided to the Steward when 
written warning, suspension or discharge is involved. 
 
SECTION 7.  DISCHARGE 
 
Any demand by the Employer for an employee's resignation shall be considered a discharge. 
 
The Employer shall have the right to discharge an employee who: 
 

Is judged by the Employer to be guilty of continuing non-correction of improper 
work-related behavior after suspension as specified in Section 2C above; 

Endangers in a willful or careless manner, the safety of students, patients, the 
public, himself/herself or other employees; 

Causes  a  liability  for  the  Employer  by  willful  or  careless  violation  of  University 
procedures or policies; 

Is judged by the Employer to be guilty of serious violations of generally accepted 
standards of employee conduct such as, but not limited to, theft, fraud, willful or 
careless destruction of Employer property, gross insubordination or falsifying of 
documents; 

Fails to pass probation except as provided under Article 7, Probationary Period; 

A. 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 
 
F. 

Engages  in  behavior  other  than  A-E  above  which  in  the  Employer's  judgment 
meets accepted just cause termination tests. 

 
Should  the Employer feel there is just cause for immediately discharging an employee who 
has passed probation, the employee may be placed on a paid leave during which the Union 
and  the  employee  shall  be  notified  immediately  and  be  given  an  opportunity  to  hear  and 
respond to the evidence supporting the discharge. 
 
SECTION 8.  DISCIPLINE RECORDS IN FILE 
 
Written  allegations  of  improper  employee  behavior  shall  be  purged  from  departmental  files 
after  one  (1)  year  whether  or  not  those  allegations  have  resulted  in  coaching or discipline.  
Such allegations would only be placed in an official personnel file if they are part of an official 
disciplinary  action.    If  no  disciplinary  action  is  taken  against  an  employee  for  one  (1)  work 
year  following  an  oral  or  written  reprimand,  all  records  of  such  oral  or  written  disciplinary 
action shall be removed from the employee's personnel file and destroyed.  If no disciplinary 
action is taken for two (2) years after a suspension or three (3) years after a suspension for 
patient abuse, sexual harassment, or physical assault, all records of those suspensions shall 
be removed from the employee's personnel file and destroyed.  For suspensions for patient 
abuse, sexual harassment, or physical assault, the record as a whole and the totality of the 
circumstances therein shall be retained. 

 

61

 
SECTION 9.  APPEAL 
 
All disciplinary actions taken by the Employer may be processed through the procedure for 
Settlement of Disputes per Article 21, except for an employee's failure to pass probation, as 
provided  in  Article  7,  Probationary  Period.    The  Union  shall  have  the  right  to  initiate  a 
grievance involving discharge of an employee who has passed probation at the second step 
of  the  grievance  procedure  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  21,  Settlement  of 
Disputes. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 23 

PERSONNEL RECORDS 

 

The  official  personnel  file  is  the  file  maintained  by  the  University  Human  Resources 
Department  or  by  the  appropriate  Human  Resources  Department  of  the  coordinate 
campuses.  No written documentation of prior disciplinary action shall be used as the basis 
for disciplinary action unless it has been entered into the employee's official personnel file, or 
if the employee has been provided written notification of recent disciplinary action.  Written 
allegations of improper employee behavior that have not been used as a basis for coaching or 
are more than one (1) year old shall not be used as the basis for disciplinary action, nor shall 
they be placed in the official personnel file.  Disciplinary action documents shall be sent to the 
appropriate Human Resources Department, where they shall be date stamped upon receipt, 
and shall be given priority in filing. 
 
Any employee shall be allowed to review all documents held in his/her official personnel file.  
Requests  for  such  review  shall  be  in  writing  and  addressed  to  the  appropriate  Human 
Resources Department.  Following receipt of such request, arrangements shall be made for 
the  employee  to  review  his/her  file  in  the  presence  of  a  Human  Resources  Department 
representative.  No one may remove material from an employee's official personnel file unless 
authorized to do so by the head of the appropriate Human Resources Department or his/her 
designee. 
 
Upon  receipt  of  written  authorization  by  the  employee,  his/her  Union  representative  may 
schedule an appointment to review the employee's file.  Copies of any document in the file 
related to a disciplinary action will be made upon request by the Union Representative.  There 
will be no charge for the first ten (10) copies; a charge for all copies greater than ten will be at 
the departmental rate. 
 
Employees  have  the  right  to  include  or  update  a  reasonable  amount  of  information  in  their 
personnel files that may be pertinent to their job performance.  Employees shall also be able 
to respond to performance appraisal or disciplinary materials placed in their official file.  (See 
Article  22,  Discipline,  Section  3,  regarding  employee  signature  on  standard  University  form 
attached to the written discipline.) 
 
Materials  related  to  job  performance  or  discipline  that  are  placed  in  an  employee's  official 
personnel  file  by  management  must  be  copied  to  the  employee.    Materials  placed  in  the 
official  file  by  the  employee  must  be  copied  to  the  employee's  immediate  supervisor.  

62

 

Materials  that  are  designated  for  an  employee's  official  personnel  file  should  be  filed 
promptly. 

 
 

ARTICLE 24 
SENIORITY 

 
SECTION 1.  SENIORITY DEFINITION 
 
Seniority is defined as the length of service in continuing or temporary positions.  In certain 
situations,  time  in  supplemental  positions  may  count  towards  seniority,  as  provided  for  in 
Article 6, Section 2A,2,b.   Time in designated percentage appointments of 36% or greater will 
be counted for all forms of seniority defined in this article. Seniority will be counted for time 
acquired  both  before  and  after  the  certification  of  the  bargaining  unit.    For  temporary 
appointments see Article 6, Temporary Appointments.  
 
SECTION 2.  CLASSIFICATION SENIORITY 
 
Classification seniority is the length of service in a particular classification in the bargaining 
unit per Section 1.  An employee accumulates and retains classification seniority in each of 
the classifications in which the employee has served. 
 
SECTION 3.  UNIVERSITY SENIORITY 
 
University Seniority is an employee's length of service in positions per Section 1.  University 
Seniority shall be used as a tie breaker in seniority, in overtime distribution in hiring off the 
layoff  list,  and  in  being  considered  for  vacant  positions  (Article  5,  Recruitment  and 
Employment, Section 3A and 3C). 
 
However, time spent outside of the bargaining unit shall not count as University seniority for 
employees in computing seniority for hiring off the layoff list. 
 
SECTION 4.  BREAKS IN SERVICE/RESTORATION OF SENIORITY 
 
The seniority record of an employee having a percent-time appointment shall be interrupted at 
any time the employee's employment with the University ends. 
 
No seniority is accrued during the period of a break in service.  An employee’s seniority with 
the  University  shall  be  reinstated  whenever  the  employee  returns  within  three  (3)  years  of 
leaving.  Prior service shall be added into all types of seniority. 
 
SECTION 5.  REINSTATEMENT 
 
Employees who are hired off the layoff list, or former employees who are hired within three (3) 
years of their termination, who were employed on a percentage appointment of at least 75% 
time (or 50% time if initial three (3) year criteria have been met) and who are reemployed in a 
position of at least 50%  time shall have these items reinstated:  unused sick leave per Article 
17; vacation leave accumulation rate and eligibility per Article 16.  Former employees whose 
employment with the University was terminated pursuant to a settlement agreement are not 
eligible for reinstatement of seniority. 

 

63

 
SECTION 6.  SENIORITY ROSTERS 
 
The  Employer  agrees  to  furnish  the  Union  each  January  31  and  July  31  with  rosters  of  all 
employees who accrue seniority, their current and prior classifications and start date in each 
classification  and  University  start  date  per  Section  1.    Employees  who  have  accepted 
positions outside the bargaining unit do not accrue class seniority in the bargaining unit when 
employed  in  positions  outside  the  bargaining  unit,  but  retain  prior  seniority  earned  in  the 
bargaining unit.   
 
When two (2) or  more employees have the same classification seniority date, ties shall be 
broken  by  recognizing  the  employee  with  the  greater  University  seniority  first.    If  a  tie  still 
continues, the employee's seniority position shall be determined by lot. 
 
A roster shall be posted in each Collegiate/Administrative Unit and departments shall provide 
notification to employees where the roster is available for review. 
 
SECTION 7.  APPEALS 
 
Employees shall have thirty (30) calendar days from the date of notice in Section 6  or from 
return to work after a leave of absence of more than fourteen (14) calendar days to notify the 
appropriate Human Resources Department in writing of any disagreements over the Seniority 
Roster.  Appeals are limited to changes since the previous posting.  The challenges shall be 
limited to a review of official University documents located in the employee's file. 
 
After the close of the appeal period, the Employer shall post an addendum of any changes to 
the Seniority Roster. 
 
The Employer may make corrections to the Seniority Roster during the thirty (30) calendar day 
appeal  period.    Between  postings,  the  Union  and  the  Employer  may  agree  in  writing  to 
changes  after  the  appeal  period.    Such  changes  shall  be  incorporated  in  the  next  Seniority 
Roster and be so identified. 

ARTICLE 25 

LAYOFF AND RECALL 

 
SECTION 1.  LAYOFF POLICY 
 
The  Employer  may  lay  off  an  employee  because  of  abolition  of  a  position  or  involuntary 
reduction of an employee's appointment due to shortage of work or funds, or other reasons 
beyond  the  employee's  control  which  do  not  reflect  discredit  on  the  employee,  or  offer 
alternatives to layoff as provided in the Memorandum of Understanding, page 110. 
 
The  employer  shall  not  lay  off  a  bargaining  unit  employee  and  subsequently  assign  the 
majority of the work of that position to students or supplemental employees. 
 
SECTION 2.  ELIGIBILITY FOR LAYOFF RIGHTS 
 
An  employee  who  has  passed  probation  in  a  continuing  position  of  36%  or  greater 
appointment and who, as determined by the Employer, is qualified for the position into which 

64

 

s/he  is  exercising  bumping  rights,  is  eligible  for  layoff  rights  defined  below.    Employees  in 
Temporary appointments, see Section 7G. 
 
An employee who is laid off while on disability leave, parental leave, family leave, or leave for 
workers' compensation shall receive notice at the time as provided in this article.  When an 
employee  returns  from  disability  leave,  parental  leave,  family  leave,  or  leave  for  workers' 
compensation  to  a  position  that  has  been  eliminated,  the  employee shall have the right to 
exercise  bumping  and  layoff  rights  as  provided  in  Article  25.    Employees  on  parental  leave 
shall  have  the  right  to  go  on  the  layoff  list  any  time  after  receiving  layoff  notice  until  the 
expiration  of  the  approved  leave.    An  employee returning from parental leave shall have the 
right to exercise bumping and layoff rights at the time s/he returns from parental leave.  In the 
case of disability leave, family leave, or workers' compensation, the employee shall have the 
right  to  exercise  bumping  and  layoff  rights  at  the  time  the  employee  is  able  to  return  from 
disability leave, family leave or workers' compensation. 
 
SECTION 3.  DEFINITION OF LAYOFF REASSIGNMENT PROVISIONS. 
 
The layoff procedure for those eligible under Section 2 shall come into effect when any of the 
following occurs: 
 
A.  When the Employer implements a continuing reduction of the percentage appointment 
of an employee appointed at 100% time or abolishes the position.  The Employer may 
reduce  the  appointment  of  an  employee  appointed  at  100%  down  as  far  as  90% 
without layoff protections coming into effect. 

 
B.  When  the  Employer  implements  a  reduction  of  a  twelve  (12)  month  appointment  by 
more than four (4) weeks (or one month in the case of employees paid semi-monthly). 

 
C.  When the Employer implements a continuing reduction of the percentage appointment 
of  an  employee  appointed  at  less  than  100%  time  which  reduces  the  employee's 
current percentage appointment below benefit line:  this means a reduction below 75% 
for a 75-99% appointment or below 50% for a 50-74% appointment or below 36% for a 
36-49% appointment. 

 
D. 

For  employees  in  positions  identified  as  less  than  twelve  (12)  month  appointments 
whenever the period of working time is reduced by more than four (4) weeks (or one 
month in the case of employees paid semi-monthly). 

 
SECTION 4.  PRELIMINARY TO LAYOFF 
 
At  least  twenty-eight (28) calendar days before the effective date of a layoff, the Union will 
receive notice of the approximate number of positions and probable classes affected by the 
impending layoff, except in emergency situations. 
 
Upon  request  of  the  Union,  the  Department  may  meet  with  a  Union  representative  and 
affected employee(s), and other participants the Department deems appropriate, to discuss 
the impending layoff and possible alternatives to layoff, and advise employee(s) of their rights 
under this Article.  This discussion is not subject to the grievance process and shall not delay 
the effective date of the impending layoff. 
 

 

65

The Employer and the Union agree that employees in the affected Department may volunteer 
for layoff or hour reductions but this shall not require extending the effective date of the layoff.  
Employees  may  also  have  options  available  under  the  Memorandum  of  Understanding, 
Alternatives to Layoff, page 110. 
 
Departments may offer vacancies or reassignments in the same class, transferable classes, 
or  lower  class,  in  those  units  where  layoffs  have  been  announced  and/or  have  occurred  to 
remaining  qualified  employees  in  order  of  University  seniority  before  these  vacancies  are 
posted. 
 
SECTION 5.  LAYOFF NOTICE 
 
Employee(s) whose positions have been abolished or reduced as described above shall be 
notified  in  writing  at  least  twenty-eight  (28)  calendar  days  before  the  effective  date  of  an 
employee's  layoff,  except  in  emergencies.    Employees  who  will  be  bumped  by  another 
employee  shall  be  notified  in  writing  at  least  twenty  one  (21)  calendar  days  before  the 
effective date of the bump, except in emergencies.  A copy of the layoff notice, which  must 
identify the specific position(s) to which an employee has rights to bump, will be sent to the 
appropriate Human Resources Department and to the Union and shall include the reasons for 
the abolition or reduction of the position as per Section 1, an explanation of the employee's 
bumping rights, and a reference to the possible impact of layoff on unemployment benefits 
should  bumping  rights  not  be  exercised.    Should  a  layoff  notice  fail  to  include  the  specific 
position to which an employee has bumping rights or fail to identify if there are no bumping 
rights, then a new layoff notice of twenty one (21) or fourteen (14) days shall be issued, and a 
new deadline is established for the decision whether or not to bump. 
 
Once layoff notice has been issued, affected employees shall be granted up to one and one-
half (1.5) straight time paid hours per week to interview for other University positions.  Time in 
excess  of  one  and  one-half  (1.5)  hours  may  be  charged  to  accumulated  vacation  leave  or 
compensatory time or  be taken without pay.  The employee must request such time off from 
his/her supervisor. 
 
If  an  employee  with  a  continuing  appointment  is  not  hired  in  a  vacancy  per  Article  5, 
Recruitment and Employment, Section 3A, or does not take one of the Alternatives to Layoff 
identified in the MOU on page 170, the bumping procedures detailed below shall come into 
effect upon the effective date of the layoff.  (See also Section 7D and Section 10, paragraph 
2). 
 
SECTION 6.  BUMPING PROCEDURES 
 
Employee(s) shall bump in the following order: 
 

A. 

The employee shall bump in the same Department, to the position occupied by 
the least senior employee who is in the same class, immediate geographic area 
and within the applicable definition of layoff or, if the employee has no bumping 
right  and  chooses  to  do  so,  to  a  definition  of  layoff  which  provides  less  work 
time,  per  Section  3A-D, that is held by the least senior employee by University 
seniority within the class. If no such position(s) exists, 

 

66

 

B. 

C. 

D. 

E. 

1. 

 

 

 

 

The employee shall bump in the same Collegiate/Administrative Seniority Unit to 
the position occupied by the least senior employee who is in the same class, 
immediate  geographic  area,  and  within  the  applicable  definition  of  layoff  or,  if 
the  employee  has  no  bumping  right  and  so  chooses  to  a  definition  of  layoff 
which provides less work time, per Section 3A-D that is held by the least senior 
employee in the class by University seniority.  If no such position exists, 

The  employee  shall  bump  in  the  same  Department  to  the  position  in  a lower 
class  in  which  the  employee  has  passed  probation  in  the  Department,  in  the 
same immediate geographic area, and within the applicable definition of layoff 
or, if the employee has no bumping right and so chooses to do so, to a definition 
of  layoff  which  provides  less  work  time,  per  Section  3A-D  that  is  held  by  the 
least  senior  employee  in  the  class  by  University  seniority.    If  no  such  position 
exists, 

The employee's name shall be placed on the layoff list. 

Immediate Geographic Area.  Each of the distinct geographic areas listed here 
shall be separate immediate geographic areas: 

Twin  Cities  campus  and 
Rosemount, Chaska, Excelsior, and Navarre, and Bethel; 

the  surrounding  metropolitan  areas 

including 

 
SECTION 7.  LIMITATIONS ON VACANCY, BUMPING RIGHTS AND PROCEDURES 
 
A. 

Prior Class Rights.  If an employee is eligible to bump to more than one previously held 
classification,  the  bumping  options  shall  be  applied  to  those  classifications  in  the 
inverse order in which they were held. 

 

 

67

Crookston campus and Northwest Agricultural Experiment Station; 

Morris campus and West Central Agricultural Experiment Station; 

Southern Agricultural Experiment Station; 

North Central Agricultural Experiment Station; 

Southwest Agricultural Experiment Station; 

Duluth campus; 

 
2. 
 
3. 
 
4. 
 
5. 
 
6. 
 
7. 
 
8. 
 
9. 
 
10.  Hormel Institute, Austin; 
 
11.  Willmar. 

Rochester CEE Center; 

Cloquet Forestry Center; 

B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

 
F. 

 
 

 
G. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

68

Rights of Bumping Employees.  Employees who are bumped may also have bumping 
rights as defined and covered under this Article. 

Qualifications.  An employee may only bump to positions for which the employer has 
determined  s/he  is  qualified,  that  is,  that  the  employee  meets  the  essential 
qualifications and existing measurable, job related selection criterion as applied by the 
Department based on the duties currently assigned to the position. 

Acceptance  of  Vacancies.    Before  bumping,  and  in  accordance  with  Article  5, 
Recruitment and Employment, Section 3a, an employee must take a vacant position 
for  which  the  Employer  has  determined  s/he  is  qualified  in  the  same  classification, 
Collegiate/Administrative  Seniority  Unit  and  immediate  geographic  area,  within  the 
applicable definition of layoff per Section 3A-D which provides the same salary.  If such 
a vacancy is not accepted the employee will no longer be eligible to exercise bumping 
rights,  but  may  have  layoff  list  rights  per  Section  10,  paragraph  2.    The  hiring 
department shall offer salary to the employee as provided in Section 11. 

Acceptance  of  Bump.    An  employee  shall  bump to any continuing position for which 
the  Employer  determines  the  employee  is  qualified,  in  the  same  classification  and 
immediate geographic area per Section 6, and within the applicable definition of layoff 
per Section 3A-D or be placed on the layoff list (see Section 11). 

Probationary Employee Limitations.  An employee only has bumping rights to classes 
in which s/he has passed probation in the Department. 

An employee who has not passed probation in the abolished or reduced time position 
shall not have rights to bump.  The employee may have rights to return to a previously 
held position as detailed in Article 7, Probationary Period, Section 6. 

Rights in Temporary Positions.  Employees on temporary appointments are eligible for 
layoff rights only as specifically provided under this Article. 

Employees on continuing appointments may not bump employees on Supplemental or 
Temporary appointments. Employees on continuing appointments may be reassigned 
to Supplemental or Temporary appointments only at the discretion of the employer. 

If an employee on a continuing appointment is reassigned into a posted or non-posted 
temporary position, the employee will retain the status of a continuing employee and 
will  continue  to  accrue  all  seniority  and  maintain other contract rights of a continuing 
employee. 

If  an  employee  on  a  posted  temporary  appointment  is  reassigned  into  a  non-posted 
temporary position, the employee will retain the status of a posted temporary employee 
and will continue to accrue all seniority and maintain other contract rights of a posted 
temporary employee. 

After  successful  completion  of  probation,  employees  on  temporary  appointments 
whose appointments have been reduced or abolished or who are bumped due to the 
reassignment  of  a  continuing employee shall not have bumping rights but shall have 
the right to be placed on the layoff list. 

 

Layoff Right Retention.  In bumping, and in rehiring from the layoff list, employees may 
have to serve probation as required in Article 7, Probationary Period.  However, in this 
bump or rehire situation, if the employee fails to pass probation, the employee shall be 
placed  on  the  layoff  list  per  Section  8,  paragraph  2.    This  option  may  be  exercised 
twice.  Failure to pass probation a third time will exclude the employee from all rights to 
return to the layoff list.  (See Article 7, Probationary Period.)  A right to return to the 
layoff list is forfeited if an employee is discharged from the University for disciplinary 
reasons. 

 
H. 

 
I. 

Retraction  of  Bump.    An  employee  who  has  elected  to  bump  may  not  retract  that 
election if the incumbent of the position into which the employee would bump has left 
the position prior to the effective date of the bump. 

 
SECTION 8.  LAYOFF LISTS 
 
The  University  shall  maintain  a  list  of  all  employees  who  have  been  laid  off  from  their 
positions.  Names shall be placed on the list by classification in order of University seniority or 
as  mutually  agreed.    An  employee's  name  shall  be  on  the  list  for  all  classes  in  which  the 
employee has served. 
 
These conditions must be met before an employee's name is placed on the layoff list:  1) the 
employee must have received a written notice of layoff, or notice of failure to pass probation, 
per  Section  7H;    2)  the  employee  must  submit  an  updated  application  to  the  appropriate 
Human Resources Department; and 3) the employee must request in writing to have his/her 
name placed on the layoff list per Section 7H and Article 5, Recruitment and Employment, 
Section 3A. 
 
SECTION 9.  RECALL 
 
In  accordance  with  Article  5,  Recruitment  and  Employment,  Sections  3A  and  3B,  an 
employee on the layoff list must be recalled by the Department in which layoff occurred if the 
Department  has  a  vacancy  in  the  classification  or  a  lower  class  in  the  related  series  and 
appointment  type  (temporary  or  continuing)  from  which  the  employee  was  laid  off  and  for 
which the employee is qualified as determined by the Employer.  When re-employed in the 
same class and lay off condition, the employee's name shall be removed from the layoff list. 
 
After receiving the recall notice from the Department, the employee has seven (7) calendar 
days during which to indicate in writing to the Employer his/her intent to return; and twenty-
one (21) additional calendar days to report to work.  Failure to accept recall to a position shall 
constitute a resignation and the employee's name will be removed from the layoff list. 
 
SECTION 10.  LAYOFF LIST RIGHTS 
 
The employee's name shall remain on the layoff list for a period not to exceed two (2) years or 
three  (3)  years  outside  the  seven  (7)  county  metropolitan  area,  from  the  effective  date  of 
layoff, or until the employee has returned to work at the University within that time, unless the 
employee returns to a lower class or layoff condition from which s/he was laid off, in which 
case, the employee’s name shall remain on the layoff list so s/he will be offered vacancies in 
the  same  class  and  Collegiate/Administrative  Unit  from  which  s/he  was  laid  off  for  one  (1) 

 

69

year from the date the employee’s name was put on the layoff list, or outside of the seven (7) 
county metropolitan area, two (2) years.  Once an employee is actually laid off, the employee 
may  turn  down  reemployment  to  the  first  two  (2)  positions  in  the  same  class,  immediate 
geographic  area  and  within  the  applicable  definition  of  layoff  per  Section  3A-D  and 
appointment type (temporary or continuing) at a salary ninety (90) percent or more than the 
employee’s salary at the time of layoff and still remain on the layoff list.  The employee must 
accept the third position or have his/her name removed from the layoff list. 
 
During the time between receiving notice and being laid off, an employee's name can be put 
on the layoff list at his/her written request per Section 8  During the time between receiving 
notice  and  being  laid  off,  the  employee  who  applies  per  Article  5,  Recruitment  and 
Employment,  Section  3A,  may  turn  down  reemployment  to  the  first  two  (2)  positions  as 
provided above (see Section 10).  However, the employee must accept a vacancy per Section 
7D, or the employee will no longer be eligible to exercise bumping rights.  During this time, an 
employee may refuse a referral on a job interview and this shall not count as a turndown. 
 
Employees have rehiring rights as specified in Article 5, Recruitment and Employment. 
 
Bargaining  unit  employees  whose  names  are  on  the  layoff  list  will  be  offered  temporary 
positions,  excluding  temporary  no- post positions, for which they are qualified, in University 
seniority order. 
 
An employee's name may remain on the layoff list if s/he is re-employed in a position outside 
his/her applicable definition of layoff per Section 3 A-D and/or appointment type (temporary or 
continuing) or in a lower class as in Section 10, but this shall not extend the two year or three 
(3) year maximum.  An employee who has exhausted his/her rights on the layoff list shall be 
considered as having resigned in good standing. 
 
SECTION 11.  SALARY 
 
An employee who is recalled or who bumps or is rehired from the layoff list to a position in the 
same  class,  in  the  same  Department  or  Collegiate  Administrative  Unit,  shall  maintain  the 
same salary as at the time of the layoff. When an employee bumps to a lower class, their 
salary shall be treated as a demoted employee in the Salary Article. 
 
SECTION 12.  RIGHTS OF EXCLUDED EMPLOYEES ENTERING THE BARGAINING UNIT 
 
Employees who have accepted positions outside the bargaining unit do not accrue seniority in 
the bargaining unit when employed in positions outside of the bargaining unit, but may retain 
prior  seniority  earned  in  the  bargaining  unit.    Employees  who  are  laid  off  from  a  position 
outside the bargaining unit shall have bumping rights into a position in this bargaining unit in a 
class or equivalent class in which the employee previously served or in a position for which 
the  employee  is  determined  to  be  qualified  by  the  Employer  only  under  the  following 
conditions: 
 

1. 

The  employee  shall  have  exhausted  all  layoff  rights  within  his/her  own 
bargaining  unit,  or,  if  not  in  a  bargaining  unit,  within  the  applicable  terms  or 
conditions  governing  their  employment.  The  employee  may  bump  only  in 
accordance with the applicable terms and conditions of his/her employment. 

 

70

 

2. 

 
3. 

 

 

a. 

b. 

The employee shall exercise rights to a vacancy in a class or equivalent class in 
which  s/he  has  previously  passed  probation  and  for  which  there  are  no 
bargaining unit applicants prior to bumping in this bargaining unit. 

Bump. 

In  order  for  a  returning  employee  to  exercise  bumping  rights  into  the 
bargaining  unit,  the  employee  must  have  greater  seniority  in  the 
classification  or  equivalent  classification  than  the  employee  who  would 
be laid off. 

The employee may bump only into a position in the same Department or 
Collegiate/Administrative Seniority Unit where the layoff occurred.  If the 
employee  has 
the 
Collegiate/Administrative Unit, s/he may bump in the same Department.  
the 
If 
Collegiate/Administrative  Unit, 
the 
Collegiate/Administrative unit. 

in 
bump  within 

the  employee  has 

two 

(2)  or  more  years  seniority 

s/he  may 

than 

two 

less 

(2) 

years 

seniority 

in 

 
SECTION 13.  BENEFIT ELIGIBILITY FOR LAID OFF EMPLOYEES 
 
Employees  subject  to  layoff  are  eligible  for  benefits  as  specified  under  the  terms  and 
conditions of this Agreement (See Article 16, Vacation and Article 20, Insurance) and may be 
eligible for other benefits that may be offered to bargaining unit employees through special 
University  programs  to  aid  workers  dislocated  or  in  career  transition  due  to  layoff.    (See 
Memorandum of Understanding on Alternatives to Layoff, page 170. 

 
 

 

ARTICLE 26 

SUBCONTRACTING 

 
The Union waives the right to bargain over the decision to subcontract bargaining unit work.  
In the event the University elects to subcontract and its decision results in the displacement of 
bargaining unit employees, the University agrees to attempt to give the Union ninety (90) days 
advance notice and shall give the Union sixty (60) days advance notice and to meet with the 
Union upon request, at a mutually agreed time, to discuss the effect of subcontracting, if any.  
Employees affected by subcontracting in a manner which meets the definition of a layoff shall 
be provided the protections of Article 25, Layoff and Recall. 

ARTICLE 27 

SAFETY 

 
STATEMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
 
The  University  and  the  Union  are  committed  to  establishing  and  maintaining  a  safe  and 
healthful  workplace.    The  parties  encourage  managers,  supervisors,  and  employees  to 
increase  their  efforts  to  reduce  the  number  of  potential  safety  and  health  hazards  in  their 
workplaces.    They  are  also  encouraged  to  work  towards  establishing  and  maintaining 
programs  to  inform  and  educate  all  employees  on  potential  workplace  hazards  in  order  to 

 

71

reduce and prevent accidents and injuries.  The University and the Union recognize the value 
of building and coordinate campus safety efforts which include union representation. 
 
This  statement  shall  not  be  grievable  nor  shall  either  party  use  this  section  as  evidence  or 
argument in arbitration. 
 
SECTION 1.  GENERAL POLICY 
 
It shall be the policy of the Employer that the occupational safety and health of its employees, 
the protection of work areas, and the prevention of accidents are continuing and integral parts 
of its everyday operating responsibility.  The Employer is committed to providing a safe and 
healthful working environment for employees.  The employees shall have the responsibility to 
use any provided safety equipment and procedures in their daily work and shall cooperate in 
all  safety  and  accident  prevention  programs.  The  University  agrees  to  abide  by  all  relevant 
required  local,  state  and  federal  safety  and  health  standards,  and  no  employee  shall  be 
disciplined or suffer any retaliatory action for, in good faith, exercising legal rights to a safe 
and healthful workplace 
 
SECTION 2.  EMPLOYEE SAFETY 
 
A. 

Any  employee  who  is  injured  or  who  is  involved in an accident during the course of 
his/her employment, no matter how slight the injury, shall file an   accident report with 
the  designated  supervisor,  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  injury  and  prior  to  the 
conclusion of the employee's work day, whenever possible. While the initial report may 
be given orally, it must be followed up within 48 hours with a written report on the First 
Report of  
the  appropriate 
administrator/supervisor who shall then submit it to the appropriate Human Resources 
Department. 

shall  be 

Injury 

form  which 

submitted 

to 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

The University agrees to assess any unsafe or unhealthy working conditions in a timely 
manner and will take remedial action, as appropriate.  Results of such assessments 
shall be reported to the employee(s) who reported the condition. 

The  University  will  make  available  information  about  hazardous  substances  in  the 
workplace as required by Minnesota Employees Right to Know Act (MERTKA) and the 
Minnesota Occupational Safety and Health Act (MOSHA). 

The  Employer  agrees  to  supply  the  equipment  necessary  to  do  work  safely  and  to 
avoid injury to workers.  When proper equipment is determined by the Employer or law 
or  regulation,  every  effort  shall  be  made  to  provide  and  use  it  in  a  timely  manner  to 
prevent injury. 

Employees have the right to refuse work consistent with M.S. 182.654, Subd. 11. 

 
E. 
 
SECTION 3.  BUILDING SAFETY 
 
Fire  and  disaster  plans  and  plans  for  improvement  of  air  quality  shall  be  developed  by  the 
University.  Copies  of  the  plans  will  be  posted  in  each building and available in appropriate 
departmental  offices  for  employee  inspection.    All  buildings  in  which  bargaining  unit 

72

 

employees work shall meet applicable state and federal health, environmental, safety and fire 
codes. 
 
SECTION 4.  LABOR MANAGEMENT SAFETY SUBCOMMITTEE(S) 
 
The  University  Labor  Management  Committee 
(ULMC)  shall  establish  a  safety 
subcommittee(s) that may propose policies, programs, and guidelines, as appropriate, in the 
following areas: 
 
A. 
 
B. 
 
C. 

Creation  and  implementation  of  safety  orientation  programs  for  new  and  transferring 
employees; 

Compliance with applicable federal and state health and safety standards; 

MERTKA based activities; 

 
 

ARTICLE 28 

WORKERS' COMPENSATION 

 
Any employee who is injured or who is involved in an accident during the course of his/her 
employment, no matter how slight the injury, shall file an accident report with the designated 
supervisor, as soon  as possible after the injury and prior to the conclusion of the employee's 
work day, whenever possible. 

 

73

 
D. 
 
E. 

 
F. 

Timely and appropriate training to accommodate changes in equipment or practice; 

Examination  of  specific  safety  problems  that  have  implications  for  the  University 
community in order to recommend solutions as appropriate; 

Development of a recommended policy that, if adopted, would be posted to instruct the 
University community in the proper handling of medical emergencies;  

Additional issues of mutual concern. 

 
G. 
 
The ULMC Safety Subcommittee(s) shall make recommendations to the University's Director 
of the Department of Environmental Health and Safety. 
 
The Subcommittee(s) shall convene  quarterly or as the Union and University mutually agree.  
Subcommittee  members  may  attend  Subcommittee  meetings  up  to  two  (2)  hours  quarterly 
during  regular  business  hours  after  providing  reasonable  notification  to  their  supervisors.  
Subcommittee members  shall lose no pay for attending Subcommittee meetings which are 
held during the employee's scheduled work time (up to two hours maximum, unless mutually 
agreed otherwise).  However, the University shall have no obligation to reimburse employees 
for  related  expenses.    Subcommittee  meetings  will  usually  be  held  on  University  property 
unless the subcommittee agrees to other accommodations. 
 
SECTION 5.  UNIVERSITY-WIDE SAFETY COMMITTEE 
 
The Union shall be entitled to a representative on the University-wide Safety Committee. 

 
Employees  whose  on-the-job  injury  prevents  them  from  performing  their  regular  duties,  but 
who  are  physically  and  mentally  able  to  perform  duties  in  a  satisfactory  manner,  shall  be 
hired in a vacant position for which they are qualified, at the same or lower pay range, ahead 
of  all  other  applicants,  except  those  having  received  layoff  notice,  laid  off  employees  and 
employees  determined  to  be  disabled  under  pertinent  provisions  of  the  Americans  with 
Disabilities Act (ADA), in accordance with Article 5, Recruitment and Employment. 
 
Employees injured on the job who cannot be re-employed in an AFSCME Unit 6 position may 
be  given  temporary  assignments  in  non-union  positions  without  jeopardizing  their  union 
status. 
 
Upon request, the University will give the Union a periodic status report about return to work 
and  accommodations  for  employees  on  Workers'  Compensation  and,  upon  request,  shall 
meet with the Union at a mutually agreed upon time to discuss accommodating the return to 
work of employees on Workers' Compensation. 
 
Time for which Workers' Compensation benefits are received is not considered "work time."  
Therefore,  any  time  on  Workers'  Compensation  does  not  count  toward  completion  of  the 
probationary period or eligibility for holiday pay or vacation or sick leave accrual.  Only actual 
time worked or the time charged to vacation or sick leave is used to determine eligibility for 
such benefits. 
 
When an employee on Workers' Compensation benefits has decided to use sick leave and/or 
vacation  to  supplement  his/her  Workers'  Compensation  benefits  the  following  procedure 
applies:  The  employee  shall  notify  the  appropriate  payroll  office  that  s/he  wishes  to 
supplement his/her Workers' Compensation check through use of sick leave and/or vacation 
leave.    The  University  shall  obtain  from  the  University  Workers'  Compensation  Insurance 
Administration  Office  the  amount  of  the  benefit  check  and  authorize  a  payroll  check  in  the 
amount of the difference between the benefit check and the employee's regular gross pay for 
the employee's normal pay period.  The employee's sick leave and/or vacation balance shall 
be reduced by the amount of the payroll check divided by the employee's hourly rate of pay at 
the time the payroll check is issued. 
 
An  employee  who  uses  sick  leave  and/or  vacation  leave  while  awaiting  the  Workers' 
Compensation  determination  shall  return  that  part  of  the  Workers'  Compensation  check 
which  covers  the  waiting  period  to  the  University.    The  University  shall  credit  back  to  the 
employee sick leave and/or vacation leave the number of hours equal to the amount of the 
Workers' Compensation check divided by the employee's hourly rate. 
 
An  adjustment  could  require  reimbursement  from  the  employee  to  the  University  if  the 
combination  of  compensation  payments  and  sick  leave  and/or  vacation  payments  exceeds 
his/her normal salary. 
 
Health, life, and dental insurance benefits provided under Article 20, Insurance, shall continue 
as  long  as  an  employee  meets  the  eligibility  requirements;  makes  timely  payment  of  the 
employee's contribution; is off the University payroll due to a University work-related injury or 
work-related  disability  and  is  receiving  or  is  eligible  to  receive  Workers'  Compensation 
payments. 
 

74

 

When  an  employee  has  incurred  an  on-the-job injury or disability and has filed a claim for 
Workers' Compensation, medical costs connected with the injury or disability shall be paid by 
the  Health  Maintenance  Organization  or  the  Health  Insurance  Carrier  pursuant  to  the 
provisions of Minn. Statute 176.191, Subdivision 3. 
 
If employees who are receiving Workers' Compensation benefits secure employment outside 
the University instead of accepting a position at the University of Minnesota, their Department 
may terminate them at the beginning date of employment or when the employee is eligible for 
health insurance with their new employer or after six (6) months leave of absence, whichever 
comes first. 
 
If  an  employee  becomes  physically, mentally, or emotionally handicapped to the extent that 
s/he cannot perform regular duties, the employer shall make a reasonable effort to place the 
employee in a position that s/he is physically, mentally, or emotionally able to perform. The 
employer  does  not  have  to  create  a  new  position  solely  to  provide  employment  for  the 
employee. 

 
 

ARTICLES 29 
WORK RULES 

The Employer may establish and enforce reasonable work rules which are not in conflict with 
the terms of this Agreement.  Such rules may be established on an organizational unit basis 
such as a work location, Department, Coordinate Campus, Collegiate/Administrative Unit, or 
University-wide and shall be the same rules for all Unit 7 (Technical Agreement) employees in 
an  area  but  may  vary  according  to what is appropriate for the work assigned to employees 
and shall be applied uniformly to all employees who are affected within these organizational 
units.  The rules shall be posted and/or distributed to directly affected employees. 
 
Whenever  new  or  amended rules are established, the organizational work unit shall inform 
affected  employees  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  the  rule,  whenever  practicable.    The 
University shall make a reasonable effort to discuss, and upon request, shall meet with the 
Local  Union,  explaining  the  need  for  the  rules,  and  shall  allow  the  Union  reasonable 
opportunity to express its views prior to placing the rules in effect.  For the purposes of this 
Section, the Local Union for issues related to rules at the local level shall be the local Union 
Steward,  or  in  his/her  absence  the  Area  Steward  or  Chief  Steward,  and  for  issues  at  the 
campus or bargaining unit wide level it shall be a Union Officer. 

 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 30 

UNION SECURITY 

 
SECTION 1.  CHECK-OFF. 
 
The University agrees to deduct Union membership dues from the earnings of any employee 
covered by this Agreement, provided the Union submits to the University a written request for 
such  deductions,  signed  by  the  employee.    Upon  submission  by  the  Union  of  a  written 
request, signed by the employee, the University also agrees to deduct contributions as part of 

 

75

the total dues deduction to the Union’s political action fund, PEOPLE.  Such requests must 
be received by the University no later than fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the end of the 
payroll period for which the deductions are to be effective.  The University shall remit the total 
deductions, with an itemized statement of the deductions, to the Union as soon as possible. 
 
SECTION 2.  CHECK-OFF CANCELLATION. 
 
Union membership dues deduction for an employee, once authorized, shall continue until the 
University receives a written request from the Union to discontinue such deductions. 
 
SECTION 3.  EXCLUSIVITY. 
 
Check-off of Union dues shall be granted only to the exclusive representative for employees 
covered by this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 4.  EMPLOYEE LISTS. 
 
At  the  Unions  expense,  the  University  shall  quarterly  provide  the  Union  with  payroll 
information, as permitted by applicable law; and monthly provide a list of employees deleted 
from  or  added  to  the  bargaining  unit,  plus  any  classification  changes  within  the  bargaining 
unit, and shall provide available work phone numbers and work locations for bargaining unit 
employees.  The Union and the University will meet to determine the details of these reports. 
SECTION 5.  INDEMNITY. 
 
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the University, including its individual Regents and 
their  agents,  harmless  against  any  and  all  claims,  suits,  orders  and  judgments  brought  or 
issued against the University as the result of action taken or not taken by the University or its 
agents in complying with Sections 1-2.  Fair share deductions and remittances are included in 
this indemnification. 
 
SECTION 6.  EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION. 
 
Each  supervisor  shall  be  responsible  for  the  orientation  of  each  employee.    The  employee 
shall  be  provided  with  a  University  orientation  packet  which  will  include  an  explanation  of 
insurance  benefits  and  information  on  child  care  programs,  and  shall  be  informed  when 
Human  Resources  is  holding  orientation  sessions  and  shall  be  allowed  to  attend  such  an 
orientation  session.    During  such  an  employee  orientation,  a  Union  representative  may  be 
present and shall be permitted a reasonable time to address bargaining unit employees.  All 
newly  hired  bargaining  unit  employees  shall  be  provided  at  the  time  of  hire  a  letter  signed 
jointly by the Union and the University. 
 
SECTION 7.  STUDENT EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION. 
 
At  the  Union’s  expense,  the  University  shall  provide  student  employment  information  to  the 
Union quarterly as provided by applicable law.  The University agrees to meet with the Union 
and discuss concerns, if any, regarding student employment. 

 
 

76

ARTICLE 31 

UNION RIGHTS 

 

 
SECTION 1.  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
The Minnesota Public Employee Labor Relations Act (MPELRA), Minn. Statutes 179A.subd.6, 
provides that a public employer must afford reasonable, unpaid time off to elected officers or 
appointed  representatives  of  the  exclusive  representative  to  conduct  the  duties  of  the 
exclusive representative. 
 
All  Union  business  shall  be  conducted  on  leave  without  pay,  accumulated  vacation,  or 
accumulated  compensatory  time.    What  follows  are  the  only  exceptions  that  provide  for 
Employer paid leave: 
 
A. 
 
B. 

Attendance  of  the  designated  Union  representative  and  the  grievant  at  grievance 
meetings  with  the  University  administrative  designee(s)  per  Article  21,  Settlement  of 
Disputes, Section 6; 

The Union Steward's activities per Sec.2C and Article 21; 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

 
F. 

 
G. 
 
H.  

Participation on a joint labor-management committee per Article 3,  
Labor Management Committee, Section 4 or 5; Article 27, Safety, Section 4;  

University 

Participation  on  a  task  force  per  Memorandums  of  Understanding  (such  as,  but  not 
limited  to  Job  Classification  Task  Force,  Problem-Solving  Pilot  Project,  Office 
Ergonomics Task Force); 

Official  activities  of  an  officer  (per  Sec.  2B)  on  Union  business  with  the  Employer  or 
with the local Union. 

Participation of a Union representative in employee orientations offered by the Human 
Resources Department. 

Attendance at Employer initiated investigatory and disciplinary meetings. 

Attendance  of  the  designated  Union  representative  and  the  affected  employee  at 
problem solving meetings per Article 21, Section 2. 

 
Except for time to provide representation in emergency disciplinary actions, time off for Union 
business must be scheduled and approved by supervisors in advance. 
 
In no event, except for Stewards' presentation of grievances in meetings with the University 
administrative designee(s) during working hours, shall any Union Activist's (Steward, or officer 
or committee member's) paid time off for Union business (per Section 1 A, B, C, D, E, F, G 
and H above) exceed eight (8) hours per month. 
 
If  the  performance  of  Union  business  as  provided  in  this  Section  is  on  non-work time, the 
Activist shall not be paid.  If the performance of Union business as provided in this Section, 
and  including  the  presentation  of  grievances,  is  during  the  employee's  normal  work  day  or 
week, those hours shall be counted as work time. 
 

 

77

On  a  quarterly  basis,  the  Union  must  provide  to  the  appropriate  Human  Resources 
Department the name of each Union activist, the Department in which s/he is employed, and 
the Units that s/he represents or the official Union business involvement expected. 
 
SECTION 2.  UNION ACTIVITIES 
 
A. 

Problem-Solving  and  Grievance  Presentation.    It  is  recognized  and  accepted  by  the 
Union and the Employer that problem-solving efforts and the processing of grievances 
are limited by the job duties and responsibilities of employees and shall therefore be 
accomplished during normal working hours only when consistent with such employee 
duties and responsibilities in accordance with Article 3, University Labor Management 
Committee and Article 21, Settlement of Disputes. 

The aggrieved employee and a Steward shall be allowed a reasonable amount of time 
without loss of pay for the presentation of a formal grievance to the University, and for 
problem solving subject to the terms of Article 21.  The presentations may be during 
normal  work  hours  provided  that  the  employee  and  the  Steward  have  notified  the 
designated supervisor(s). 

 
 

 
B. 

 
 

 
D. 

 
E.  

78

Officers' Activities.  Up to five (5) Union Officers for technical unit, Local 3937and up to 
four  (4)  Union  Officers  for  Local  3801  whose  names  have  been  provided  to  the 
Employer on a quarterly list, may be granted up to eight (8) hours of time off with pay in 
each  calendar  month  to  conduct  Union  business  (per  Section  1  c,  d,  e  above)  with 
advance  notice  to  their  supervisors.    The  Union  shall  provide  a  minimum  of  two  (2) 
days  notice  to  the  department    prior  to  the  use  of  this  time  off  with  pay  for  Union 
business, whenever possible. 

 
C.   Steward's Activities.  The University acknowledges that the Union Steward is expected 
to  perform  such  duties  as:    a)  posting  Union  notices  and  announcements;  b) 
transmitting  communication  authorized  by  the  Local  Union  or  its  officers  to  the 
Employer; c) procuring grievance-related documents from the Employer. 

If  such  activities  cannot  be  accomplished  during  off-duty time, the  designated Union 
Steward  may  be  allowed  reasonable  time  off  with  pay  with  notice  to  the  Steward's 
supervisor in accordance with the following guideline.  Stewards who are responsible 
for the administration of the Agreement may be granted up to 1 (one) hour of time off 
with  pay  in  each  calendar  month  for  these  activities.  The  Employer  recognizes  that 
procuring grievance related documents may occasionally require additional paid time 
beyond the one (1) hour per month. 

Accredited Representatives.  Accredited representatives of AFSCME shall have access 
to the premises of the Employer at reasonable times during working hours to conduct 
Union business related to administration of the Agreement, as may be required, after 
first informing the supervisor of the unit they wish to visit. 

Union  Leave.    In  accordance  with  MPELRA,  a  Union  officer  shall  be  granted  leave 
without  pay  to  serve  on  the  negotiating  committee  for  a  new  contract,  to  attend  an 
AFSCME  council  convention,  to  attend  a  Council  6  executive  board  meeting, and to 
conduct all other Union business of the exclusive representative.  The employee may 
elect  to  use  accumulated  vacation  time  or  accumulated  compensatory  time  as 

 

scheduled with his/her supervisor in advance.  Any Union leave one (1) day or less in 
duration, shall be requested as soon as possible.  Any Union leave in excess of one (1) 
day shall be requested in writing at least fourteen (14) calendar days in advance of the 
effective date.  

 
SECTION 3.  LOCAL UNION MEETINGS 
 
The  Employer  agrees  that  Union  members  may  attend  the  regular  monthly  Local  Union 
meeting during working hours on leave without pay, after notifying the employee's immediate 
supervisor  at  least  forty-eight (48) hours in advance.  The employer may limit the number of 
employees who may be gone from the work location at one time.  The employee may elect to 
use  accumulated  vacation  time  or  accumulated  compensatory  time  as  scheduled  and 
approved by his/her supervisor in advance. 
 
SECTION 4.  BULLETIN BOARDS 
 
In accordance with the policy of each University building, the Union shall be granted posting 
rights  for  Union  meeting  notices  and  other  official  Union  publications  on  specifically 
designated  Department  bulletin  boards  at  mutually  agreeable  locations.    Space  shall  be 
designated on those bulletin boards which will be exclusively for Union materials.  
 
SECTION 5.  UNPAID LEAVE PROVISIONS. 
 
While  Union  officers,  stewards,  or  committee  members  are  using  unpaid  leave  for  the 
purpose  of  contract  negotiations,  as  well  as  conducting  Union  business  as  referenced  in 
Section 1, paragraph 1 of this Article, the employees will continue to accrue vacation and sick 
leave  as  though  working  their  normal  appointment,  have  their  anniversary  dates  for 
progression  increases  and  vacation  accrual  advancement unaffected, and be considered in 
pay status on the days before and after holidays. 
 
SECTION 6.  OFFICE SPACE 
 
At  the  University  of  Minnesota,  Duluth,  and  Twin  Cities  campus,  the  employer  agrees  to 
provide  office  space,  if  available,  for  AFSCME  Local  3801  and  3937.    If  office  space  is 
available, the Employer agrees to provide it to the Local Unions at the customary rental rate. 

 

ARTICLE 32 

MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 

 
Except  as  expressly  limited  by  this  Agreement,  the  University  reserves  unto  itself  all  rights, 
powers, and privileges heretofore exercised or granted to it by law including but not limited to 
the following: 
 
A. 

The  right  to  manage  and  control  the  University’s  business.    Adopt  rules  and 
regulations,  determine  financial  and  budgetary  policies  (including  all  accounting 
procedures)  and  all  matters  pertaining  to  public  relations.    Determine  the  size  of  the 
management organization, its functions, authority, amount of supervision and table of 
organization. 

 

 

79

Continue  its  rights  and  past  practice  of  assignment and direction of work of all of its 
personnel,  determine  the  number  of  shifts  and  hours  of  work,  starting  and  ending 
times,  length  of  the  work  year,  and  scheduling  of  all  the  foregoing,  and  the  right  to 
establish,  modify  or  change  any  right  or  practice, but not in conflict with the specific 
provisions of this Agreement. 

The right to direct the working forces, including the right to hire, promote, suspend and 
discharge  employees,  transfer  employees,  evaluate,  assign  work  to  employees, 
determine the qualifications of employees, including physical conditions, determine the 
size  of  the  work  force,  lay  off  employees,  and  determine  the  policy  affecting  the 
recruiting, selection, testing, or training of employees, providing such selection shall be 
based upon lawful criteria. 

The right to determine the services, supplies and equipment necessary to continue its 
operations  and  to  determine  the  means,  methods,  schedules  and  standards  of 
operation,  the  means,  methods,  and  processes  of  carrying  on  the  work  including 
automation thereof or changes therein, the instruction of new and/or improved methods 
or  changes  therein,  the  placement  of  or  distribution  of  work  and  the  source  of 
materials, supplies and staff. 

 
This Article shall not be used to avoid any of the provisions of this Agreement. 

B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
 

ARTICLE 33 
SAVINGS 

 
This Agreement is intended to be in conformity with all applicable and valid federal and state 
laws and those rules or regulations promulgated thereunder having the force and effect of law 
which  are  in  effect on the effective date of this Agreement.  Should any Article, Section, or 
portion  thereof  of  this  Agreement  be  held  unlawful  and  unenforceable,  such  decision  shall 
apply only to the specific Article, Section, or portion thereof directly specified in the decision, 
and all other valid provisions shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
Should  the  implementation  of  any  provision  or  portion  of  this  Agreement  be  delayed  or 
withheld because of an applicable federal law, Executive Order, or regulation regarding wage 
and price controls, only such specific provision or portion shall be affected and the remainder 
of  this  Agreement  shall  continue  in  full  force  and  effect.    Any  portion  or  provisions  of  this 
Agreement  thus  delayed  or  withheld  shall  become  effective  and  be  implemented  at  such 
time,  in  such  amounts,  and  for  such  periods,  retroactively  and  prospectively,  as  will  be 
permitted by law at any time during the term of this Agreement or any extension thereof. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 34 

NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT 

80

 

 
SECTION 1.  NO STRIKE 
 
The Union and the University subscribe to the principle that differences shall be resolved by 
peaceful and appropriate means without interruption to the University.  The Union therefore 
agrees  that  it  shall  not  authorize,  ratify,  promote  or  support  any  unlawful  strike  under  the 
Minnesota  Public  Employment  Labor  Relations  Act.    A  strike  is  lawful  if  conducted  as 
provided under the provisions of the Minnesota Statutes 179A.18 Subdivision 1.  A strike is 
defined under the Minnesota Public Employment Labor Relations Act as a “concerted action 
in  failing  to  report  for  duty,  the  willful  absence  from  one’s  position,  the  stoppage  of  work, 
slowdown, or the abstinence in whole or in part from the full, faithful, and proper performance 
of the duties of employment for the purpose of inducing, influencing or coercing a change in 
the  conditions  or  compensation  or  the  rights,  privileges,  or  obligations  of  employment” 
(Minnesota Statutes 179A.03, Subdivision 16).  Any employee who violates the provisions of 
this  section may be discharged or otherwise disciplined.  Any employee so disciplined may 
elect to grieve the discipline under Article 22 of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 2.  NO LOCKOUT. 
 
The University agrees it will not lock out employees during the term of this Agreement. 

 
 

ARTICLE 35 

ENTIRE AGREEMENT 

 
This Agreement constitutes the sole and entire existing Agreement between the parties.  This 
Agreement is subject to amendment only by a subsequent written agreement between, and 
executed  by,  the  University  and  the  Union.    The  waiver  of  any  term  or  condition  of  the 
Agreement  by  either  party  shall  not  constitute  a  precedent  unless  the  parties  specifically 
agree in writing. 

 
 

ARTICLE 36 
DURATION 

 
This Agreement shall be effective as of the 14th day of September, 1999, except as otherwise 
provided in the Agreement, and shall remain in full force and effect until the 30th day of June, 
2001. 
 
It shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall notify 
the other in writing at least one hundred fifty (150) calendar days prior to the expiration date 
that it desires to modify this Agreement. 
 
In  the  event  that  such  notice  is  given,  negotiations  shall  begin  not  later  than  one  hundred 
twenty (120) calendar days prior to the expiration date.  All time limits contained herein may 
be extended by mutual written agreement.  This Agreement shall remain in full force and be 
effective during the period of negotiations and until notice of termination of this Agreement is 
provided to the other party in the manner set forth in the following paragraph. 
 

 

81

In the event that either party desires to terminate this Agreement, written notice must be given 
to the other party not less than ten (10) calendar days prior to the desired termination date 
which shall not be before the expiration date set forth in the preceding paragraph. 
 
In witness whereof, the parties have set their hands this 14th day of September, 1999.  

 
 
FOR THE UNION 

 

 

FOR THE UNIVERSITY 

 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 
______________________________  ______________________________ 
 

82

 

 

APPENDIX A 

 

DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINT INFORMATION 

 
Complaints  of  discrimination  may  be  resolved  by  the  Office  of  Equal  Opportunity  and 
Affirmative  Action  (EO/AA)  without  using  a  formal  grievance  procedure.    In  the  case  of 
employees not located in the Twin Cities area, employees have the right to discuss with or 
submit  a  complaint  to  the  local  Human  Resources  Department,  the  Office  of  Equal 
Opportunity, or Grievance Officer. 
 
The EO/AA Office has the responsibility and authority to assist individuals with complaints of 
discrimination,  including  sexual  harassment.    They  will  help  resolve  problems  primarily 
through informal channels; the help is available to faculty, staff, and students with problems 
related  to  employment  and  education.    The  EO/AA  Office  reserves  the  right  to  change  its 
policies and procedures. 
 
The  Employer  agrees  that  the  complaint  procedure  for  discrimination  complaints  shall  be 
opened  to  Union  participation  at  the  request  of  the  complaining  employee  and  that  EO/AA 
personnel shall inform a complaining employee of this right.  The complaint procedure shall 
include the following: 
 
1. 

An employee who believes s/he has a discrimination complaint should discuss his/her 
situation  with  an  EO/AA  Office  staff  member,  who  will  inform  the  person  of  various 
options. 

 

 
2. 

The  equal  opportunity  officer  determines  whether  or  not  the  complaint  warrants 
investigation.    The  person  may  be  asked  to  complete  a  complaint  form.    When  a 
complaint  is  initiated,  at  the  request  of  the  employee,  a  notice  of  the  complaint  in 
progress will be sent to the Union.  If in filing a complaint an employee states that s/he 
is unable to perform in the worksite from which the complaint arose, the EO/AA staff 
member shall conduct a preliminary review in a timely manner concerning the urgency 
of the situation.  If this preliminary review establishes that a reasonable basis for the 
employee's concern about continuing in the work situation exists, the EO/AA shall take 
intervening  action,  when  appropriate,  to  defuse  the  situation  which  may  include 
temporarily  reassigning  either  party  until  such  time  as  the  complaint  is  fully 
investigated, there is a finding, and corrective action, if required, is implemented. 

If the complaint warrants investigation, an EO/AA Office staff member shall attempt to 
conduct the investigation within thirty (30) days of the original complaint to determine if 
University policy has been violated.  The staff member shall prepare a written report at 
the  conclusion  of  the  investigation.    If  there  is  an  EO/AA  recommended  action,  that 
recommendation  should  be  included  in  the  report.    If  the  complaining  employee has 
requested the Union's involvement in the complaint, the Union's representative as well 
as  the  complainant  shall  be  provided  a  written  summary  of  the  EO/AA's  final 
disposition of the complaint.  If EO/AA ceases their activities on a complaint in  which 
the Union has been involved, the EO/AA office shall notify the employee and the Union 
in  writing  that  their  office  is  no  longer  investigating  and/or  working  on  mediating  the 
complaint.  The Union and the Employer agree that all hearings and records shall be 

 

83

confidential as provided by law and that retaliation against an aggrieved employee or 
witness is prohibited. 

If it is determined that University policy was violated, a remedy to the problem will be 
offered. 

If  it  is  determined  that  University  policy  was  not  violated,  the  complainant  will  be 
informed,  and  other  options  will  be  explained,  including  where  complaint  procedures 
may be filed under state and federal law. 

In assessing the existence of sexual harassment in a particular case, the record as a 
whole and the totality of the circumstances, such as the nature of the sexual advances 
and  the  context  in  which  the  alleged  incidents  occurred,  will  be  considered.    The 
determination  of  conduct  which  violates  this  policy  will  be  made  from  the  facts  on  a 
case by case basis. 

Neither the procedure outlined above, nor any complaint which is not resolved by this 
procedure are subject to Article 21, Settlement of Disputes. 

Incidents of harassment should be reported as follows: 

 

Crookston:  Grievance Officer; Selvig Hall 

218-281-8365 

Duluth: 

Office of Equal Opportunity; 255 Darland Adm. Bldg.; 218-726-6827  

Twin Cities:  Office of Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action,  

419 Morrill Hall 
612-624-9547 

Morris: 

Vice Chancellor for Acad. Affairs and Dean, 315 Behmler Hall 
320-589-6015 

Victims of harassment often need immediate help in overcoming the fear, trauma and 
anger caused by such behavior. These resources are available for counseling: 

Crookston:   Counseling and Career Center, Bede Hall 

218-281-8585 

Duluth: 

UMD Employee Assistance Program 
218-720-1309 

Twin Cities:  Employee Assistance Program,  612-627-4242 

Boynton Health Service (fee for service) 
612-625-8400 

University Counseling Services (fee for service) 

612-624-3233 

Morris: 

Student Counseling Center 

 

 

 

 

 

3. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

84

612-589-6060 

 

85

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

CROOKSTON: 
Selvig Hall 
Experiment Station 

MORRIS: 
Behmler Hall, first floor 

MINNEAPOLIS: 
Blegen Hall, across from Room 5 

ST. PAUL: 
Coffey Hall, next to Room 20 

APPENDIX B 

 

VACANCY POSTING 

 
As  of  the  effective  date  of  this  contract,  the  following  are  official  areas  where  vacancy 
information can be found: 
 
 

DULUTH: 
255 Darland Administration Building 

HUMAN RESOURCES 
Donhowe Building, 1st floor 

 
 
 
 
An employee may call the Office of Human Resources, 200 Donhowe Building for information 
about possible alternative job vacancy resources (e.g. job line, electronic bulletin board, etc.), 
and their locations. 
 
Employees  interested  in  vacancies  at  other  campuses  should  contact  Human  Resources 
personnel  on  the  campus(es)  to  which  the  employee desires to move for assistance in job 
placement. 
 
The Employer agrees to notify the union whenever it changes or eliminates the location for an 
official bulletin board. 
 

86

 

BU 7 COLLEGIATE/ADMINISTRATIVE SENIORITY UNIT LISTING 

APPENDIX C 

 

President's Office 

Institute of International Studies and Programs 
International Study and Travel Center 
New Student Programs 
University of Minnesota Weisman Art Museum 
Admissions 
Scholarships and Financial Aid 
Registrar 
Student and Office Systems Support 
Office of Planning and Information Services 

Executive Vice President and Provost 
Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action 
Associate V.P. for Planning, International Studies and Enrollment Operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Associate V.P. for Multicultural and Academic Affairs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Associate V.P. for Information Technology  

American Indian Learning Resource Center  
Asian/Pacific American Learning Resource Center  
African American Learning Resource Center  
Chicano/Latino Learning Resource Center  
Minority and Special Student Affairs 
Student Diversity Institute 
Disability Services 
Office for University Women 
Minnesota Womens' Center 

 
 
1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distributed Services and Planning 
Business and Student Information Systems 
Academic and Distribution Computing Services 
Networking and Telecommunications Service 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) 

VP Institutional Relations  
 
University Relations  
Development  
 
 
Alumni Relations 

VP Research 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Graduate School  
University Press 
Center for Urban and Regional Affairs  
Hormel Institute 
Supercomputer Institute 
Sponsored Project Administration 
Patent Technology Marketing 

General College 

 

87

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3) 
 
 
 
 
4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

88

VP Student Development and Athletics 
University Counseling and Consulting Services  
Boynton Health Service  
Communications and Publications 
Minneapolis Student Unions 
St. Paul Student Center 
Recreational Sports 
Program Against Sexual Violence 
Student Activities 
Student Judicial Affairs 
Student Legal Services 
Academic Counseling - Intercollegiate Athletics 
Women's Intercollegiate Athletics 
Men's Intercollegiate Athletics 
Athletic Compliance Office 
Military Science 
Naval Science 
Aerospace Studies 
Food Services 
Housing Services 

Liberal Arts, College of 

University College 

Budget and Finance 
Financial Reporting 
Business Services 
Bursar 
Systems Support 
Compliance Office 
Audits 

Associate VP for Finance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vice President for Human Resources 
 
 
Health and Safety 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treasurer and Insurance 
 

Building Codes Division 
Environmental Health and Safety 
Police Department 
Emergency Management 
Building Official 
Parking and Transit Services 

Office of Human Resources 
Student Employment Center 

Asset Management 

Master Planning Office 

 

Agricultural Experiment Station Admin. (StP) 

Natural Resources, College of 
 
Cloquet Forestry Center 

Agriculture, Food and Environmental Sciences, College of 
 
 

Rosemount Ag. Experiment Station 
Landscape Arboretum 

Human Ecology, College of 
Education and Human Development, College of 

Architecture and Landscape Architecture, College of 

 
Real Estate 
Auxiliary Services 
Bookstores 
 
 
University Stores 
Printing Services 
 
Fleet Services 
 
 
Office Equipment Services 
Addressing and Mailing 
 
University Bindery 
 
Purchasing 
 
 
Campus Mail 
Facilities Management 
Concerts and Lectures 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6) 
 
 
7) 
 
 
8) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9) 
 
 
10)  Medical School Unit 1 
 
 

Law School 
 

Biological Sciences 

Law Library 

Institute of Technology 

University Libraries 

Carlson School of Management 

Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs 

VP Health Sciences 
Special Health Sciences Programs 

 

89

Cell Biology & Neuroanatomy 
Biochemistry  
Microbiology  
Pharmacology  
Physiology  
Institute of Human Genetics  
Neuroscience  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11)  Medical School Unit 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12)  Medical School Unit 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Anesthesiology  
Dermatology  
Neurosurgery  
Ophthalmology  
OB/GYN 
Surgery  
Urologic Surgery  

Dean's Office 
Admissions 
Student Affairs 

Alcohol and Drug Abuse 
Biomedical Graphic Communication 
Medical School Administration 
 
 
 
Minnesota Medical Foundation 
Medical School Curriculum  
Instructional Department Research  
Biomedical Ethics 
Research Animal Resources 
CUHCC 
 
 

Cancer Center 
Molecular and Cellular Therapeutic Program 

Neurology  
Psychiatry 
Pediatrics  
Physical Medicine & Rehab. 
Radiology  

Family Practice & Community Health  
Orthopedic Surgery  
Otolaryngology  
Medicine  
Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Therapeutic Radiology  
Lab Medicine and Pathology 

90

 

Nursing, School of 
Dentistry, School of 

SW Experiment Station (Lamberton) 

 
16)  School of Public Health 
 
 
17)  Pharmacy, College of 
 
 
 
18)  Veterinary Medicine, College of 
 
19)  Minnesota Extension Service 1, Northwest and Northeast 
 
20)  Minnesota Extension Service 2, Southwest and Southeast 
 
21)  Minnesota Extension Service 3, Central 
 
22)  UMD, NRRI 
 
23)  UMD, Medical School 
 
24)  UMD, Academic Areas 
 
25)  U of M Morris  
 
26)  U of M Crookston 
 
27)  No. Central Experiment Station (Grand Rapids) 
 
 
 
 
 
The  above  Collegiate/Administrative  Seniority  Unit  Listing  represents  the  groupings  of 
collegiate, administrative and equivalent units for  the purpose of determining bargaining unit 
seniority.  The University in its sole discretion may change, alter, establish or eliminate these 
groupings and seniority units.  If the University does so, the University and the Union agree to 
meet and to discuss how the seniority of any affected employees shall be calculated. 

Southern Experiment Station (Waseca) 

 

91

CHILD CARE 

 
CHILD CARE RESOURCE AND REFERRAL NETWORK 
 
Employees in the Duluth area should contact the UMD Department of Human Resources at 
(218) 726-7161 for information regarding adult and child care services. 
 
Employees in the Morris area should contact the Office of the Vice-Chancellor for Finance at 
589-6021. 
 
THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA CHILD CARE CENTER 
 
The  Child  Care  Center  provides  child  care  programs  at  several  locations  in  the  Twin Cities 
area.   For more information call the University Child Care Center at 627-4014. 
 
In  addition,  child  care  services  are  available  at  the  Child  Care  Center  on  the  Crookston 
campus.  For more information contact the UMC Child Care Center at (218) 281-6510. 

92

 

APPENDIX F 

CLASSIFICATION SERIES 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

Class Title 

Assistant Child Care Teacher 
Child Care Teacher 

Junior Applications Programmer 
Applications Programmer 

Laboratory Animal Care Technician 
Animal Care Technician Specialist/Anesthetist 

Environmental Health & Safety Technician 
Senior Health and Safety Technician 
Principal Health and Safety Technician 

Data Processing Technician 
Data Processing Technician II 
Senior Data Processing Technician 
Principal Data Processing Technician 

 
Following are the classification series which are referenced in Article 5, Section 3 of the 
agreement. 
 
Class Number 
 
4901   
4902   
4903   
4904   
 
4905   
4909   
 
4906   
4907   
 
4914   
4915   
4916   
 
4921   
4922   
 
4926   
4927   
 
4931   
4932   
 
4940   
4941   
 
4944   
4945   
4946   
 
4961   
4962   
 
4966   
4967   
4968   
 
4975   
4976   
4979   
 

Electronics Technician 
Senior Electronics Technician 
Electro Mechanical Systems Specialist 

Assistant Communications Technician 
Communications Technician 
Senior Communications Technician 

Laboratory Technician 
Senior Laboratory Technician 
Principal Laboratory Technician 

Photographic Laboratory Technician 
Principal Photographic Laboratory Technician 

Research Plot Technician 
Senior Research Plot Technician 

Engineering Assistant 
Principal Engineering Assistant 

Veterinary Technician 
Senior Veterinary Technician 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

93

4981   
4982   
4983   
4984   
 
 
4995   
4996   
4997   

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Assistant Laboratory Machinist 
Laboratory Machinist 
Principal Laboratory Machinist 
Laboratory Machinist Specialist 

Library Assistant 1 
Library Assistant 2 
Library Assistant 3 

94

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

ALTERNATIVES TO LAYOFF 

 
When, due to budget reductions, program changes, attempts to improve efficiency or service 
to the public, or for other reasons, the University reorganizes, consolidates, reduces the size 
of,  or  merges,  current  organizational  units,  the  parties  agree  it  is  desirable  to  minimize 
employee  disruption  by  considering  alternatives  to  layoff  and  by  involving  employees  in  the 
planning process. 
 
In seeking those ends, the parties agree the following actions should happen: 
 
1. 

Full information should be provided to employees and the Union as early as possible in 
the process of organizational changes. 
Input  from  employees  and  the  Union  should  be  sought  regarding the implications of 
possible  changes  on  future  operation  of  the  unit,  work  efficiency,  and  employee 
concerns. 
Input  from  employees  and  the  Union  should  be  sought  in  considering  alternatives  to 
layoff which could accomplish the stated goals of the contemplated action. 
Input  from  employees  and  the  union  should  be  taken  about  any  possible  use  of 
subcontracting  while  changes  affecting  current  employees'  employment  are  under 
consideration. 
By mutual agreement of the parties, any or all of the above matters shall be discussed 
in  a  Labor/Management  Committee  forum,  provided  one  exists  at  the  local  level.    If 
there is no local labor management committee, the Employer will meet and confer with 
the union on any of the above matters upon request of the union. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 
It  is  expected  that  changes  due  to  program  consolidation,  attempts  to  improve  efficiency 
and/or service, programs or functions, or due to mergers, should be planned well in advance 
and in detail so that notice beyond the requirements provided in Article 25 should be given to 
employees  who  may  be  subject  to  layoff.    It  would  be  anticipated  that  in  such  advance  
planning situations, the Employer should give sixty (60) days advance notice of the pending 
changes. 
 
At that time, if it has not already happened, the affected department(s) shall meet with union 
employees to discuss the following: 
 
1. 
2. 
3. 

Reasons for the proposed changes 
Possible alternatives to position elimination to accomplish desired goals 
Proposed  classifications  of  and  numbers  of  positions  affected  by  the  proposed 
changes. 

 
Individual  employees  affected  by  the  elimination  or  reduction  of  their  positions  shall  be 
notified in the manner prescribed in Article 25. 
 
Departments are encouraged whenever possible to provide notice months in advance to allow 
utilization of retraining.  The employer agrees to provide information about available retraining 
opportunities to any employees affected by these reorganizations or layoffs. 
 

 

95

At the time employees are given notice, all affected employees shall be informed of what the 
number, classification, and duties of the bargaining unit positions in the altered work unit will 
be. 
 
Departments  are  encouraged  to  offer  reassignment  in  those  units  where  layoffs  have  been 
announced  and/or  have  occurred  to  remaining  qualified  employees  in  order  of  University 
seniority before the vacancy is posted. 
 
Because the goal is to keep employees who want to stay at the University, any employee in 
the affected department may take the options provided below in order to open up positions, 
except for the vacancy-bumping and retraining options, which are only available to employees 
whose own position is abolished or reduced.  These options are available only to employees 
in departments affected in the manner described above, and to all employees in departments 
where budget reductions of relatively short notice causes positions to be abolished or reduced 
in a way which meets the definition of layoff in Article 25: 
 

1) 

LAYOFF/NON-RENEWAL PROGRAM 

 
Eligibility: 
 
Employees  are  eligible if they have received a notice of layoff and hold at least a 75% time 
continuing  appointment.    Temporary  employees  are  not  eligible.    While  employees  who 
previously have participated in termination severance programs are eligible for the Layoff/Non-
renewal program, time included in previous programs shall not be included in any subsequent 
programs. 
 
Benefits: 
 
(1) 

Eligible employees receive a lump-sum payment equal to one week of pay per full year 
of continuous service with the University, up to a maximum of 52 weeks of pay.  One 
week of pay is equal to the regular hourly rate times the number of hours per week the 
employee was regularly scheduled to work on the last day of employment. 
Employees'  medical  and/or  dental  coverage  may  be  continued  for  up  to  18  months 
following termination of employment (but not after the last day of the month in which 
the employee becomes eligible for Medicare or other group medical plan that has no 
limitations or exclusions with respect to any preexisting conditions of  the employee or 
his/her dependents) according to the following schedule: 

(2) 

 
 
 
 

University Contribution 
 
 
 
 

 
Full Years of Continuous Service  
 
Less than 3 years 
 
3 through 4 years 
 
5 through 9 years  
10 years and over 
 
 
If  the  sum  of  their  full  years  of  continuous  University  service  and  age  on  their  last  day  of 
employment is 75 or greater and they have received a notice of layoff, they can continue their 
medical and/or dental coverage until the last day of the month in which they become eligible 
for Medicare or for other group coverage, whichever comes first.  The employee's contribution 
for this coverage will be the same as if the employee had remained employed. 
 

0 months 
6 months 
12 months 
18 months 

 
 
 
 

96

 

OPTIONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE AND VOLUNTARY REDUCTION OFAPPOINTMENT 

The  University's  contribution  for  this  coverage  will  be  the  same  as  if  the  employee  had 
remained employed.  If the above contribution is for less than 18 months, the employee may 
continue coverage for the balance of the 18 months at his/her own expense under COBRA. 
 
The employee may elect to participate in the program up to the effective date of layoff. 
 
2) 
 
The  Employer  at  its  option  may  offer  employees  who  have  not  been  notified  for  layoff  in 
University  seniority  order  a  leave  without  pay  or  a  reduction  of  the  percentage  time  of  the 
position for a specified period during which employees shall accrue seniority, earn vacation 
and sick leave, receive health care coverage, and be eligible for tuition waiver programs as if 
the employees remained employed.  The employer reserves the right to terminate this leave 
of  absence,  with  thirty  (30)  calendar  days  notice,  at  which  time  the  employee  may  be 
recalled, or be laid off pursuant to Article 25.  An employee returns from LOA to a position in 
the  same  class and department, but not necessarily to the same position occupied prior to 
the  LOA.    Step  placement  and  anniversary  dates  of  such  returning  employees  shall  be 
determined according to the terms of Article 18, Section 7.   In no case shall such a leave 
extend  beyond  one  (1)  year,  unless  specifically  agreed  between  the  employee  and  the 
Department Head. 
 
3. 
 
An employee can choose to exercise vacancy preference by choosing to go on the layoff list 
at any point his/her position has been identified as affected, per Article 5. 
 
An  employee  who  chooses  the  Layoff/Non-Renewal  Program  is  no  longer  able  to  exercise 
recall rights. 
 
The provisions set forth in this MOU are not subject to the grievance procedure in Article 21. 

VACANCY PREFERENCE 

 

97

 
The  Employer  and  the  Union  agree  to  the  following  discussion  agenda  for  supervisor-union 
activist orientation. 
 
The supervisor, Union Activist (steward or officer or committee member), appropriate Human 
Resources Department Representative, and Union Representative shall meet and review the 
contract  provisions  on  Article  21,  Settlement  of  Disputes;  Article  22,  Discipline;  Article  31, 
Union Rights; and Article 3, University Labor Management Committees.  Application of these 
provisions  to  the  Union  Activist's  specific  work  situation  shall  be  clarified  in  the  following 
aspects: 
 
1.  Who shall be notified of grievance or disciplinary meetings? In that person's absence, 

who should be notified of such meetings? 

 
2.  Who  should  be  contacted  to  request  Union  leave?    In  that  person's  absence,  who 

should be contacted? 

 
3.  What form should above notification take, such as, oral or written notice? 
 
4.  What are the highest activity time periods in the work location?  What are the lowest 

activity time periods in the work location? 

 
5.  What provisions will be made for phone calls and messages? 
 
It  is  understood  the  Union  and  Employer  may  not  have  total  agreement  on  the  degree  to 
which union rights must be accommodated in every situation.  However, the parties do agree 
on the following points: 
 
1. 

The Union Activist shall give notice immediately when grievance meetings or discipline 
meetings are scheduled. 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

UNION ACTIVIST/SUPERVISOR ORIENTATION 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

98

The  Union  Activist  will  make  known 
the  appropriate  Human  Resources 
Representative  the  preferred  meeting  times  for  his/her  work  area,  and  the  meeting 
times to be avoided, if possible. 

to 

The Union Activist will request union leave as much in advance as possible, as soon 
as the need is known, and in periods of low activity, to the extent possible. 

The  Employer  recognizes  that  the  Union  Activist  is  not  in  sole  control  of  grievance 
meeting scheduling and will accommodate time off in unavoidable conflicts. 

The  parties  agree  that  the  joint  goals  of  providing  union  representation to employees 
and  completing  the  work  of  the  Employer  shall  be  pursued  in  a  positive  problem-
solving manner. 

After  the  meeting,  it  is  desirable  to  document  in  writing  the  specific  understandings 
reached.  The parties understand this does not abrogate either parties' rights under the 
Collective Bargaining Agreement. 

 

 
1. 

 
2. 

 
4. 

Task force membership shall be comprised of one (1) technical unit, three (3) clerical 
unit,  one  (1)  Health  Care  unit  and  five  (5)  University  representatives.  Additional 
members of the University may be invited to participate including a representative from 
the Purchasing Department. 

 
3.  With advance notice and supervisory approval, the task force shall be released for up 
to two (2) hours per month without loss of pay for the duration of this Agreement or as 
mutually agreed. 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 
TASK FORCE ON OFFICE ERGONOMICS 

During the course of this Agreement, the University and the Union agree to continue 
the  task  force  for  the  purpose  of  assessing  and  evaluating  office  ergonomic 
considerations  and  possible  occupational  health  hazards  associated  with  office 
ergonomics 

The  task  force  will  develop  operational  guidelines/communication  plans  regarding 
office ergonomics and prepare recommendations and conclusions for presentation to 
the ULMC.  The task force will not continue beyond the duration of this Agreement. 

 

99

 
1. 

 
2. 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE 

Agreement.  Over the life of this Agreement, the University agrees to commit a sum of 
money  for  training  and  career  development  programs  for  members  of  the  bargaining 
unit. 

Career Development and Training Advisory Committee.  In order to forward the mutual 
goals of career development, training and retraining, the parties agree to participate in 
an advisory committee on these issues. 
 
A. 

Self  Directed  Career  Planning  which  includes:  an  orientation  to  cover  career 
development  and  computer  assisted  career  development  or  self  help 
workbooks.    These  options  would  include  a  strong  marketing  element, 
appropriate  testing  and  step  by  step  information  from  the  very  basic  to  the 
sophisticated to meet different employees' needs. 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 
D. 

 
E. 

 
F. 

Individual Career Development Counseling and/or Career Planning Workshops 
for employees with different understandings and needs including an orientation 
to career development. 

Inventory  of  career  development  resources  at  the  University  and  elsewhere 
including information within libraries and placement offices, facts about how to 
apply for jobs, etc. 

job 

families  at 

including  required  skills, 
Information  on 
related 
competencies,  and  qualifications,  career  paths 
information  through  workshops,  informational  interviews  for  select  jobs  with 
identified administrators, supervisors, or faculty and other delivery mechanisms. 

(mapping)  and 

the  University 

Advise on amount of resources which shall be devoted to the above tasks and 
on appropriate timing and delivery mechanisms for the above tasks. 

The  Clerical  and  Technical  Units  will  each  have  one  (1)  representative on the 
Advisory  Committee.    These  representatives  shall  be  treated  the  same  as  all 
other  representatives  on  the  Advisory  Committee  as  far  as  compensation  for 
meetings and time away from work duties for meetings. 

 
G.  With notice and supervisor approval, the representatives shall be released for up 
to six (6) hours per month without loss of pay for a maximum of six (6) months or 
as mutually agreed. 

100

 

ELIGIBLE DONATORS 

DONATIONS 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

VACATION DONATION 

PURPOSE 

 
1. 
 
The purpose of the vacation donation policy is to allow an employee to donate vacation leave 
to  an  individual  under  certain  conditions.    Employees  who  have  a  need  for  additional  paid 
leave  because  they  have  exhausted  all  paid  leave  and  have  a  serious  medical  hardship  or 
catastrophic illness or injury, such as cancer, major surgery, AIDS, a serious accident, heart 
attack, etc., that poses a threat to life and/or requires inpatient, hospice, or residential health 
care are eligible.  The employee's need may arise from their own serious medical hardship or 
catastrophic illness or from their need to care for a family member.  Family members include 
spouse or cohabitor, children ( including foster children and step-children), parents or parents 
in law of the employee and registered same sex domestic partner, children of the registered 
same sex domestic partner, or parents of the registered same sex domestic partner, who has 
a  serious  medical  condition  or  catastrophic  illness.    This  policy  is  not  intended  to  cover  an 
employee who is experiencing a normal pregnancy,  has a common illness or injury covered 
by an employer paid long term disability policy or worker's compensation, or has incurred an 
injury during the course of committing a felony. 
 
2. 
 
To be eligible to donate an employee must: 
 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
 
3. 
 
All donations are voluntary and are made to an individual.  An employee may donate no less 
than eight  hours, but not more than forty hours of vacation each year, prorated according to 
their  percentage  appointment.    The  donated  paid  time  will  be  calculated  on  the  hourly  rate 
and fringe benefit rate of the employee donating the time. 
 
Department  Heads,  in  discussion  with  Human  Resources  and  Union  representatives  may 
limit the number of donations when donations will result in a budget deficit. 
 
Employees who are prohibited by grant regulations from donating vacation may not donate 
vacation. 
 
4. 
 
To be eligible an employee must: 
 
A. 
B. 

be eligible to accrue vacation leave. 
have passed their initial probationary period. 
have leave available. 
not deplete their own bank. 

be eligible to accrue vacation and sick leave under the applicable labor agreement; 
have  exhausted  all  forms  of  paid  leave  (vacation,  sick,  compensatory  time,  paid 
holidays, etc.). 
have passed their initial probationary period. 

ELIGIBILITY TO RECEIVE DONATED VACATION 

C. 

 

101

D. 

E. 

 
5. 
 
A. 

B. 
C. 

D. 
E. 
F. 
G. 

H. 

suffer  from  a  serious  medical  hardship,  catastrophic  illness  or  injury  to  either 
themselves or a family member as described in Section 1 above. 
employees are ineligible to use this bank during any investigatory suspension or if they 
are  receiving  or  have  applied  for  Worker's  Compensation  benefits.    Employees  are 
also ineligible if they have discipline for sick leave abuse in their personnel file. 

APPLICATION FOR LEAVE 

Eligible employees, who must meet the criteria in number 4, may apply  by completing 
an application and a release for medical information form from their supervisor.  In the 
event  an  employee  is  physically  or  mentally  unable  to  initiate  a  request,  the  request 
may be initiated by a member of the employee's family, or by their department. 
An employee may be asked to provide additional medical information 
Employees can apply for up to 65 days maximum per year of leave from the bank and 
may make an application once every calendar year. 
Any awarded days will be prorated based on the employee's percentage appointment. 
Application does not constitute approval of the request. 
All, or a portion of the time requested may be granted. 
Application may be made prior to the depletion of an employee's leave, as soon as the 
need for leave is known. 
If approved, the granted leave is meant to cover only the duration of the illness/injury for 
which it was granted.  If the situation ceases or the recipient retires or terminates, any 
unused portion of the leave will be returned to the donor. 
Leave time need not be used continuously 

ADMINISTRATION 

I. 
 
6. 
 
The  U  of  M  Central  Human  Resources  Department  is  responsible  for  administering  this 
program  in  conformance  with  the  guidelines  in  this  MOU.    The  decisions  on  eligibility  to 
participate and distribution of donated leave time rests with Human Resources and shall not 
be subject to the grievance procedure. 
 
The  Employer  agrees  to  meet  with  two  representatives  from  the  Union  consistent  with  the 
paid time off provisions of Article 31, to discuss questions which arise. 
 
If  other  campuses  choose  to  have  campus-wide  vacation  donation  programs,  they  will  be 
responsible for the administration of the program. 

102

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

SEMESTER CONVERSION 

 
The Employer agrees to meet and confer with the officers of Local 3800, 3937, and/or Local 
3801, or their designees, on the impact of the semester conversion on workers and their work 
and possible changes in the proposed academic calendars as a result of the conversion.  The 
Employer agrees to meet and confer on each campus where the Union so requests. 

 

103

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

CONDUCT OF UNION BUSINESS 

 
The  University  and  the  Union  acknowledge  the  fact  that  the  conduct  of  union  business  by 
Union  presidents or chief stewards of the bargaining unit often requires him/her to be away 
from  his/her  work  station(s)  for  either  sporadic  or  extended  periods  of  time.    The  parties 
recognize  that  these  absences  have  an  impact  not  only  upon  the  operations  of  the 
management, but the employees assigned to these work units. 
 
As  a  means  of  addressing  managerial  and  staff  workload  and  productivity  concerns,  the 
parties agree to the following: 
 
All Local Union presidents or chief stewards who are away from the workplace to perform any 
union business will be eligible to receive up to a fifty (50) percent leave of absence from the 
individual’s employing unit.  The employee will be required to work at least fifty (50) percent of 
a pay period in his or her work unit(s).  The employee will be paid at 100% of his or her salary.  
This leave provision shall remain in force and effect for the entire period of that individual’s 
term  of  office.    All  benefits  currently  provided  to  these  employees  by  the  University  will 
continue to remain in effect. 
 
This  memorandum  shall  remain  in  force  and  effect  for  the  entire  period  of  this  1999-2001 
Agreement. 

104

 

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

 
The Employer agrees, at the Union’s request, to meet and confer with locals 3937 and 3801 
regarding any concerns that arise surrounding the use of temporary agency employees during 
the life of this agreement. 
 
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

 
The Employer agrees to meet and confer with the local Union regarding the use of the Junior 
Scientist classifications at the Agricultural Experiment Stations. 
 
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

 
The Employer agrees to conduct an environmental and occupational analysis study of the 
Laboratory Animal Research Technicians in Research Animal Resources. This study will be 
initiated within 30 days of the signing of the contract. The target date for completion is 
December 31, 1999. If the conclusion of this study results in changes to classification or 
compensation, these changes may be implemented prior to the conclusion of this Labor 
Agreement. 
 

 

105

Jul 16, 1999 
 
Bev Hall 
Assistant Director 
AFSCME, Council 6 
 
Dear Ms. Hall: 
 
The following changes in the accrual and use of vacation where agreed to by AFSCME, 
Council 6 and the University of Minnesota: 
 
Employees will be able to use vacation as it is earned. The six-month waiting period for new 
employees will be eliminated. 
 
Vacation maximums will be the same for part time employees and for full time employees. 
Maximums will no longer be pro-rated according to percent appointments. 
 
Employees who move to a different status (i.e. V class to non-V class) will maintain their 
higher maximum rate. 
 
These changes will become effective with the implementation of the PeopleSoft System. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Patti Dion 
Assistant Director 
Employee Relations 
 
 
 

106

 

AGREEMENT BETWEEN 

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 

AND 

AFSCME LOCAL 3801 
COUNCIL 6, AFL-CIO 

EFFECTIVE 

July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2001 

 

 
Re Article 18, Section 2C.: Voting – The parties agree that employees may take paid time off 
for voting in any statewide primary election, or in an election to fill a vacancy in the office of 
U.S. Senator or U.S. Representative during the election day. The University will comply with 
all  federal  and  state  laws  regarding  voting.  Should  these  laws  change  or  be  held 
unenforceable all the remaining articles will remain in effect. 
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

The Union and UMD agree to establish a pilot program Labor-Management Committee 
in  one  vice  chancellor  area  by  October  1,  1999.  An  announcement  will  be  sent  to 
employees  in  the  selected  unit  and  will  be  signed  by  the  vice  chancellor  and  the 
president of the Union. The process will be evaluated at the end of a year with a joint 
discussion to be held regarding next steps. 

The Union and Human Resources will meet to clarify all existing posting procedures for 
Units 6 and 7. Human Resources will provide an updated draft for this joint review no 
later than November 19, 1999. 

The Union and Human Resources will meet to clarify the written communications that 
are provided to new employees who are hired in either Unit 6 or 7 on a part-time basis. 

On a 2-year pilot program basis, AFSCME Unit 6 or 7 employees may request to cash 
out up to 40 hours of their accumulated vacation time each year. This option will be 
presented  to  these  employees by November 1 of each year. Denials of a request will 
not be grounds for a grievance. 

 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
 

 

 

____________________________  

____________________________  

____________________________  

____________________________  

____________________________  

____________________________  

 

107

