Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

3

Language English

Country United States

State MI

Union AFSCME (American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees) AFL-CIO

Local Local 1585

Multiple occupations represented

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Michigan State University
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2002

Source

http://www.hr.msu.edu/Docweb/contracts/default.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

 
Agreement between  
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY  
and  
LOCAL UNION NO. 1585,AFSCME, AFL-CIO  
   

August 1, 1999 - July 31, 2002  

 

Preface  

Agreement  

Purpose and Intent  

Rights of the Employer  

Aid to Other Unions  

UNION  

Recognition  
Union Security - Req. of Union Membership  
Union Dues, Initiation Fees and Service Charges  
Representation Districts  
Stewards & Alternate Stewards  
Union Bulletin Boards 

UNION SECURITY  

Seniority  
Seniority Lists  
Loss of Seniority  
Seniority of Officers 

GRIEVANCE  

Grievance Procedure - General Conditions  
Presenting a Grievance  
Computation of Back Wages  

LAYOFFS  

Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge  
Special Conferences  
Medical Dispute 

Temporary Layoffs  
Layoffs  
Recall Procedure  
Work Opportunity for Laid-Off Employees 

LEAVES OF ABSENCE  

Absences  

Paid  

Holidays  
Vacations  
Personal Leave Hours  
Sick Leave  
Funeral Leave  
Jury Duty  
Union Release Time 

Equalization of Overtime Hours  
Longevity Pay  
Health Care Coverage  (Recently questions have arisen relating to the Health 
Plan language of the Local 1585 AFSCME contract.  Click here to view a 
document advising you of the current Health Plan options available to you.)  
Dental Program  
Disability Plans  

Non-Paid  

Unpaid Leaves  
Military Leave  
Educational Leave of Absence for Veterans  
General Conditions 

PROMOTIONS &TRANSFERS  

Filling of Vacancies  
Transfers 

COMPENSATION & WAGES  

Classifications  
Wage Rate Increase Plan  
Red Circle Rates  
Working Hours  
Time-and-One-Half in Specific Areas of Work 

BENEFIT PROGRAMS  

RETIREMENT  

Retirement Benefits 
ADDITIONAL ARTICLES  

Employee-Paid Life Program  
Death Benefit (Expanded Life Insurance) 

Educational Assistance  
Supervision Working  
Student Labor  
Safety Committee  
Agreement Copies  
Supplemental Agreements  
Maintenance of Conditions  
Special Provisions  
Savings Clause  
Contract Documents  
Ratification  
Modification  
Effective Date  
Appendix I - Local 1585 AFSCME Classification and Level Schedule  
Appendix II  
Appendix III  
Appendix IV  
Appendix V  
Appendix VI  
Appendix VII  
Appendix VIII - Definitions 

 

 
PREFACE  

-1 The Board of Trustees of Michigan State University and AFSCME Local 1585 
recognize their moral and legal responsibilities under federal, state, and local laws.  

- 2 The University and the Union recognize the moral principles involved in the area of 
civil rights, fair employment practices and affirmative action, and have reaffirmed in their 
Collective Bargaining Agreement their commitment not to discriminate because of race, 
creed, color, sex, age, marital status, handicap, sexual preference, political affiliation, or 
national origin.  

AGREEMENT  

-3 This Agreement, entered into this seventeenth day of September 1999 between 
Michigan State University, (hereinafter referred to as the "EMPLOYER"), and AFSCME 
Local Union No. 1585, Council 25, AFL-CIO, (hereinafter referred to as the "UNION").  

ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE AND INTENT  

-4 The general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth terms and conditions of 
employment, and to promote orderly and peaceful labor relations for the mutual interest 
of the Employer, the Employees and the Union.  

-5 The parties recognize that the interest of the Employer and the job security of the 
employees depend upon the Employer's success in establishing a proper service to the 
State.  

-6 The Employer and the Union will encourage to the fullest degree friendly and 
cooperative relations between the respective representatives at all levels and among all 
employees.  

-7 Accordingly, the officials representing the Employer and the Union will from time to 
time during the life of this Agreement, at the request of either and the mutual 
convenience of both, meet for the purpose of appraising the problems which have 
arisen in the application, administration and interpretation of this Agreement and which 
may be interfering with the attainment of their joint objective as set forth above. Such 
meeting shall not be for the purpose of settling grievances nor for conducting continuing 
collective bargaining negotiations, nor to in any way modify, add to, or detract from the 
provisions of this Agreement.  

ARTICLE 2 - RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYER  

-8 The Employer reserves and retains, solely and exclusively, all rights to manage and 
direct its work forces, except as expressly abridged by the provisions of this Agreement, 
including by way of illustration but not limitation, the determination of policies, 
operations, assignments, schedules, discipline, and layoff, for the orderly and efficient 
operation of the University.  

ARTICLE 3 - AID TO OTHER UNIONS  

-9 The Employer will not aid, promote or finance any labor group or organization which 
purports to engage in collective bargaining or make any agreement with any such group 
or organization for the purpose of undermining the Union.  

ARTICLE 4 - RECOGNITION  

A. Employees Covered  

-10 Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of Act 379 of the Public 
Acts of 1965, as amended, the Employer does hereby recognize the Union as the 
exclusive representative for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of 
pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for the term of 
this Agreement of all employees of the Employer including part-time employees, in the 
following seniority units, excluding executive, administrative, academic, students, 
supervisory, professional, technical, clerical personnel, and those employees in other 
recognized bargaining units.  

B. Seniority Units  

-11 The seniority units shall be:  

Agriculture and Natural Resources, College of  
Campus Park and Planning, Division of  
*Clinical Center  
*Cyclotron  
Housing & Food Services, Division of  
Human Ecology, College of  
Human Medicine, College of  
Instructional Media Center and Office of Special Programs  
Intercollegiate Athletics, Department of  
Natural Science, College of  
Osteopathic Medicine, College of  
Physical Plant, Division of  
Public Safety, Department of  
**Theatre Department  
University Health Center  
University Laboratory Animal Resources  
University Services and Continuing Education, Divisions of  
Veterinary Medicine, College of  

*This Unit shall be a separate seniority unit and shall be represented by the Chief 
Steward (or in his/her absence by the Local President).  

**The addition of this unit shall not change the practice of assignment of the setup crew.  

ARTICLE 5 - UNION SECURITY - REQUIREMENTS OF UNION MEMBERSHIP  

-12 To the extent allowed by the laws of the State of Michigan, it is agreed that:  

a. Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it becomes effective and 
who are members of the Union at that time shall be required as a condition of 
continued employment to continue membership in the union for the duration of 
this Agreement.  

b. Employees covered by this Agreement who are not members of the Union at 
the time it becomes effective shall be required as a condition of continued 
employment to become members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement 
on or before the first (1st) day after the thirtieth (30th) day following such 
effective date, or pay to the Union a sum equivalent to the initiation fee and 
membership dues as a charge for representation services.  

c. Employees hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred into the bargaining unit 
after the effective date of this Agreement and covered by this Agreement shall 
be required as a condition of continued employment to become members of the 
Union for the duration of this Agreement on or before the first (1st) day after the 
thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of their employment in the unit or pay 
to the Union a sum equivalent to the initiation fee and membership dues as a 
charge for representation services.  

d. An employee who shall tender an initiation fee (if not already a member) and 
the periodic dues, or a sum equivalent to the initiation fee and periodic dues, 
uniformly required of all employees in the seniority units that are represented by 
the Union, shall be deemed to meet the conditions of this section.  

e. Employees of the seniority units that are represented by the Union shall be 
deemed to be in compliance with this Union Security Clause if they are not more 
than sixty (60) days in arrears in payment of membership dues or the sum 
equivalent to membership dues as a charge for representation services.  

f. The Employer shall be notified in writing, by the Union, of any employees in 
the seniority units that are represented by the Union who are sixty (60) days in 
arrears in payments of membership dues, or the sum equivalent.  

g. The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any and all 
claims, demands, suits, or any other action arising from this Article, or from 
complying with any request for termination under this Article. 

ARTICLE 6 - UNION DUES, INITIATION FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES  

A. Payment by Checkoff or Direct to Union  

-13 The Employer will check off initiation fees and biweekly dues, or service charges, on 
the basis of individually signed voluntary checkoff authorization cards in forms that have 
been furnished by the Union. (The Union will request a Special Conference over its 
intent to change the content of the authorization cards.) Employees may tender the 
initiation fee uniformly required as a condition of acquiring membership in the Union and 
biweekly membership dues, or service charges, by signing the proper authorization. The 
Employer will present employees with checkoff authorization cards at the time of initial 
employment within the bargaining unit. If the employee chooses not to authorize payroll 
deduction at the time the card is presented, the Employer will notify the Union and 
identify the employee and department where he/she is employed.  

B. Employer Responsibility for Deductions  

-14 The Employer shall have no responsibility for the collection of initiation fees and 
membership dues, or service charges or any other assessments that are not in 
accordance with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement.  

C. Delivery of Executed Authorization for Checkoff  

-15 A properly executed copy of the form authorizing checkoff by an employee for whom 
initiation fees and biweekly membership dues, or service charges, are to be deducted in 
accordance with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement shall be mailed at the 
Union expense to the Union before any payroll deductions are made. Deductions shall 
be made thereafter only under a properly executed authorization for checkoff which is in 
effect. Any authorization for checkoff form which is incomplete or in error will be 
returned to the Union by the Employer.  

D. When Deductions Begin  

-16 Deductions under all properly executed authorizations for checkoff shall become 
effective at the time such authorizations are tendered to the Employer and shall be 
deducted from the first (1st) pay of the month and each month thereafter.  

E. Refunds  

-17 In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee 
already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the 
provisions of the Union Constitution or By-Laws, refunds to the employee will be made 
by the Union.  

F. Remittance of Deductions to Secretary-Treasurer  

-18 Deductions for any calendar month shall be remitted to the designated Secretary-
Treasurer as soon as possible after the first pay of that month. The Employer shall 
furnish the designated financial officer, monthly, with a list of those for whom the Union 
has submitted signed forms authorizing checkoff, but for whom no deductions have 
been made. The Union will notify the Office of Employee Relations, in writing, regarding 
changes in designated Secretary-Treasurer and financial officer.  

G. Termination of Checkoff  

-19 An employee shall cease to be subject to checkoff deductions beginning with the 
month immediately following the month in which he/she signs a dues termination card at 
the Union office. The designated Secretary-Treasurer will be notified by the Employer of 
the names of such employees following the end of each month in which the termination 
took place.  

H. Disputes Concerning Checkoff  

-20 Any disputes between the Union and the Employer which may arise as to whether 
or not an employee properly executed or properly revoked an authorization for checkoff, 
shall be reviewed with the employee by a representative of the local Union and the 
designated representative of the Employer. Should this review not dispose of the 
matter, the dispute may be referred to Step III of the Grievance Procedure. Until the 
matter is disposed of, no further deductions shall be made.  

I. Limit of Employer's Liability  

-21 The Employer shall not be liable to the Union by reason of the requirements of this 
Agreement for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual 
deductions made from wages earned by employees.  

J. List of Members Paying Dues or Service Charges Directly  

-22 The Union will furnish the Employer, within fifteen (15) days after the effective date 
of this Agreement, the names of all members paying dues or service charges directly to 
the Union. Thereafter the Union will furnish the Employer a monthly list of any changes.  

K. Disputes Concerning Membership  

-23 Any dispute arising as to an employee’s membership or service charge shall be 
reviewed by the designated representative of the Employer and a representative of the 
local Union, and if not resolved, may be submitted to Step III of the Grievance 

Procedure. However, the employee may be retained at work while the dispute is being 
resolved.  

-24 The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any liability 
resulting from any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising from 
compliance with this Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or 
authorization furnished under this Article.  

ARTICLE 7 - REPRESENTATION DISTRICTS  

-25 The representation districts and the number of Stewards in each district shall be as 
follows:  
   

Representation 
District 
Agriculture and Natural 
Resources, College of  
    North  
    South 
Akers Hall 
Automotive Services 
Brody Hall  
    First Shift  
    Second Shift  
    Third Shift 
Case Hall 
Crossroads 
Custodial Services  
    First Shift  
    Second Shift  
    Third Shift 
Fee Hall 
Food Processing 
Food Stores 
General Stores   
(including Campus 
Mail) 
Holden Hall 
Holmes Hall 

District  
Steward 
   

 
1  
1 
1 
1 

Alternate 
Steward 
   

 
1  
2 
1 
1 

1  
1  
1 

1 
1 

1  
1  
1 

1 
1 
1 

1  
  

1 
1 

1  
1  
1 

1 
1 

1  
1  
1 

1 
1 
1 

1  
  

1 
1 

Hubbard Hall 
Human Ecology 
Human Medicine 
Instructional Media 
Center*  
(including Office of 
Special Programs) 
Intercollegiate 
Athletics,   
Department of 
Kellogg Center 
Laundry (including 
Upholstery and 
Drapery Shop, 
Residence Halls, 
Maintenance Shops, 
Residence Hall 
Construction Shop) 
Mason-Abbott Hall 
McDonel Hall 
Natural Science, 
College of 
Owen Graduate Hall 
(including Eppley 
Center) 
Printing (including 
Continuing Education) 
Public Safety, 
Department of 
Recycling & Waste 
Management 
Shaw Hall 
Snyder-Phillips Hall 
Telephone Office  
Tool Room 
Union Building 
University Laboratory 
Animal Resources 
University Apartments  

1 
1 
1 

1  
  

1  
  

1 

1 

1 
1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

1 

1 

1 
1 
0 

1  
  

1  
  

1 

1 

1 
1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

1 
1 
2 
0 
1 

1 

1 

University Health 
Center 
Veterinary Medicine, 
College of 
West Circle Complex 
Wilson Hall 
Wonders Hall 

1 

1 

1 
1 
1 

1 

1 

4 
1 
1 

*The areas in parenthesis shall be considered as separate districts for Overtime 
Equalization, Article 43.  

-26 The number of Stewards may be increased or decreased and the units may be 
redistricted by mutual written agreement of the Employer and the Union. When more 
than one Alternate Steward is indicated in a district, the Union shall notify the Employer 
of the Alternate Steward's jurisdiction.  

-27 It is mutually recognized that the principle of proportional representation which 
reflects the increase and decrease in the work force is a sound and sensible basis for 
implementing this section of the Agreement.  

-28 Problems arising under this Article may be resolved by the submission of a 
grievance at Step III of the Grievance Procedure.  

ARTICLE 8 - STEWARDS AND ALTERNATE STEWARDS  

-29 In each district, employees in the district shall be represented by one District 
Steward or during his/her absence an Alternate Steward, who shall be a regular 
employee and working in the district. The District Steward or Alternate Steward shall be 
notified of scheduled overtime periods. During scheduled overtime periods for more 
than one employee in his/her district the District Steward or Alternate Steward shall be 
scheduled to work as long as there is work scheduled in their district that they can 
perform and shall be so notified and scheduled.  

-30 The District Stewards or Alternate Stewards during their working hours, without loss 
of time or pay, shall, in their own district, in accordance with the terms of this section, 
investigate and present grievances to the Employer, upon having received permission 
from their Supervisor to do so. The Supervisor will normally grant permission and 
provide sufficient time to the District Stewards or Alternate Stewards to leave their work 
for these purposes subject to necessary emergency exceptions. The privilege of District 
Stewards or Alternate Stewards leaving their work during working hours without loss of 
time or pay is subject to the understanding that the time will be devoted to the proper 

handling of grievances or posting bulletins in their districts and will not be abused; and 
District Stewards or Alternate Stewards will perform their regularly assigned work at all 
times, except when necessary to leave their work to handle grievances or posting 
bulletins in their district as provided herein. Between 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. two (2) 
District Stewards (or two (2) Alternate Stewards) may be excused with pay to attend a 
regularly scheduled steward meeting. Any alleged abuse by either party will be a proper 
subject for a Special Conference. An executive board member who is also a District 
Steward or Alternate Steward may be excused for one (1) Stewards' and one (1) 
executive board or special executive board meeting per month not to exceed two (2) 
hours per meeting per month.  

-31 Notwithstanding their position on the seniority list, a Steward shall in the event of a 
layoff of any type within his/her district be continued at work as long as there is work in 
their district which he/she can perform and shall be recalled to work in the event of a 
layoff to the first vacancy in their district which they can perform.  

-32 The Union will furnish the Office of Employee Relations with the names of its 
authorized representatives and such changes as may occur from time to time in such 
personnel, so that the Employer may at all times be advised as to the authority of the 
individual representatives of the Union with which it may be dealing. The Employer will, 
in return, through the Office of Employee Relations keep the Union advised as to its 
representatives.  

ARTICLE 9 - UNION BULLETIN BOARDS  

-33 The Employer will provide enclosed bulletin boards that may be locked in each 
district which may be used by the Union for posting notices of the following types:  

a. Notices of Union recreational and social events.  

b. Notices of Union elections.  

c. Notices of results of Union elections.  

d. Notices of Union meetings.  

e. Notices of job openings covered by this contract. 

-34 The Union shall have the exclusive right to the use of its assigned bulletin boards. In 
the event a dispute arises concerning the appropriateness of material posted on the 
Union Bulletin Boards, the President of the Local Union will be advised by the Office of 

Employee Relations of the nature of the dispute and the notices or bulletins in question 
will be removed from the bulletin boards until the dispute is resolved.  

ARTICLE 10 - SENIORITY  

A. Probationary Employees  

-35 New full-time employees, not currently employed at the University, shall be 
considered as probationary employees for their first 1040 hours of work. Part-time 
employees shall be considered probationary for their first 520 hours of work. When an 
employee finishes the probationary period, the employee shall be entered on the 
seniority list of the unit or occupational group whichever is in effect and shall rank for 
seniority from the date the probationary period began. There shall be no seniority 
among probationary employees.  

-36 The Union shall represent probationary employees for the purposes of collective 
bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions 
of employment except discharged or disciplined employees for other than Union activity.  

B. Temporary Employees  

-37 Appointments - There shall be no seniority or rights of recall for persons who are 
employed for specific temporary jobs lasting nine (9) months or less.  

At the time of employment, the temporary appointment shall not be extended beyond 
nine (9) months, except when a temporary employee fills the position of a regular 
employee on leave of absence, in which case the employment period may continue for 
the duration of the leave of absence. The Union will be provided the name of the 
temporary employee and the name of the employee on leave. Such term shall not 
exceed two years. After completion of the probationary period, the temporary employee 
may not be discharged prior to the date certain for termination except for just cause. 
The temporary employee may not be transferred to a regular job until after compliance 
with the posting provisions of Article 36.  

a. The Employer shall have the right to "recycle" temporary employees in the 
bargaining unit. Recycled employees shall continue to receive the job rate.  

b. Temporary employees shall not replace or displace regular employees on a 
permanent basis except as provided for in applicable provisions of the Collective 
Bargaining Agreement.  

c. The total number of temporary employees in the bargaining unit at any one 
time shall be limited to no more than 30% of the regular bargaining unit 
employee complement, excluding temporary employees.  

d. Beginning January 28, 1999, temporary employees who are recycled shall 
receive credit for the immediately preceding employment cycle for bidding 
purposes only, as provided for in Article 10, Section B, paragraph 38 of the 
Collective Bargaining Agreement. Thereafter, recycled temporary employees 
shall continue to carry past recycled service for bidding purposes only, as 
provided for in Article 10, Section B, paragraph 38 of the Collective Bargaining 
Agreement.  

e. Except as provided for herein, the conditions of employment for temporary 
employees shall be provided for in Article 10, Section B of the Collective 
Bargaining Agreement. 

-38 Bidding on Vacancies - Provided he/she has completed a probationary period in 
his/her original seniority unit within the past 12 months a temporary employee may bid 
on posted vacancies within that seniority unit under the following conditions, whichever 
comes first:  

a. Four (4) weeks prior to the end of his/her term of temporary employment.  

b. Upon completion of six (6) months of continuous employment.  

c. For thirty (30) calendar days after completion of the employee's term of 
temporary employment. 

For bidding purposes only, his/her seniority will be recognized for time actually worked 
after regular full-time employees in the seniority unit and in the bargaining unit have had 
an opportunity to bid and transfer in accordance with the requirements of Article 36.  

-39 Benefits - Upon completion of six (6) months of employment, temporary employees 
will become eligible for vacation on a proportional basis. Temporary employees shall be 
granted sick leave and holiday pay, on a proportional basis, from their date of hire.  

C. Part-time Employees  

-40 Employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours per week but less than 
twenty-six (26) hours per week shall be considered half-time (1/2) time employees; 
those regularly scheduled to work more than twenty-six (26) hours per week but less 
than thirty-six (36) hours per week shall be considered three-quarter (3/4) time 

employees and those regularly scheduled to work thirty-six (36) hours per week to forty 
(40) hours per week shall be considered full-time employees.  

-41 Benefits - The following benefits shall be extended to part-time employees on a 
proportional basis: Vacation time, holidays, personal leave, sick leave, longevity, 
retirement, health care, dental, employee paid life and accidental death and 
dismemberment.  

-42 Seniority - Part-time employees shall retain seniority on the same basis as full-time 
employees. This seniority shall be exercised during period of layoffs, recall, and for 
filling of vacancies.  

-43 Funeral Leave shall be granted to part-time employees on the same basis as full-
time employees.  

ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY LISTS  

-44 Seniority shall not be affected by the race, creed, color, sex, age, marital status, 
handicap, sexual preference, political affiliation, or national origin of the employee.  

-45 The seniority lists on the date of this Agreement shall show the names of all 
employees of the unit entitled to a ranking for seniority, in addition to such other 
information as may be required by Paragraph 48 of this Agreement. Service records in 
effect at the date of this Agreement shall be used by the parties hereto as the records of 
continuous service as of such date.  

-46 The Employer will keep the seniority lists up to date at all times, and whenever a 
Steward shall raise a question of seniority, shall make the seniority list available for 
his/her inspection.  

-47 Within thirty (30) days after the ratification of this Agreement and every six (6) 
months thereafter during the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall give to the 
Union two (2) copies of the names of all Union members covered by the Agreement 
together with their addresses as they then appear on the records of the Employer.  

-48 The Employer agrees to give to the Union updated seniority lists five (5) copies, two 
(2) listed by classification, and three (3) alphabetical every three (3) months. The lists 
shall include name, classification, date of seniority, rate of pay, division in which they 
work, and department. Said lists will be given to the Union in January, April, July, and 
October.  

ARTICLE 12 - LOSS OF SENIORITY  

A. General  

-49 An employee shall lose his/her status as an employee and his/her seniority if:  

a. He/She resigns or quits other than in Paragraphs 51, 52 and 53.  

b. He/She is discharged or terminated (unless reversed through the grievance or 
arbitration procedures).  

c. He/She retires.  

d. He/She does not return to work from layoff within fourteen (14) calendar days 
after being notified to return by certified or registered mail or by telegram 
addressed to the employee at his/her last address filed with the Office of Human 
Resource Services. An employee who changes their address must notify the 
Employer of the change.  

e. He/She has been on layoff for a period of time equal to their unit seniority at 
the time of their layoff or two (2) years, whichever is lesser.  

f. He/She is absent from work including the failure to return to work at the 
expiration of a vacation, or disciplinary layoff, for three (3) consecutive working 
days or a leave of absence for five (5) consecutive working days without 
notifying the Employer, except when the failure to notify and work is due to 
circumstances beyond the control of the employee. 

-50 A grievance involving compliance with this section shall begin at Step III of the 
grievance procedure, and may be processed through the grievance and arbitration 
procedures.  

B. Return Rights to the Union  

-51 An employee returning to the Union within twelve (12) months of his/her termination 
from University employment shall receive credit for University seniority earned prior to 
the date of termination, after successful completion of a trial period of 240 hours of 
work, for calculation of vacation, longevity, and retirement eligibility.  

-52 Employees who return(ed) to the University more than twelve (12) months after 
terminating will receive credit for past service after working for five (5) continuous 
additional years. Such prior service credit can only be applied toward retirement. 
Employees will receive service credit for part-time service to qualify for retirement 
status.  

-53 The provisions of this article shall only apply to employees returning to the Union 
after the effective date of this Agreement.  

ARTICLE 13 - SENIORITY OF OFFICERS  

-54 Notwithstanding their position on the seniority list, the President, Vice-President, 
Secretary-Treasurer, Recording Secretary and Chief Steward of the local Union shall, in 
the event of layoff, be continued to work at all times when one or more districts or 
divisions or fractions thereof are at work, provided they can perform any of the work 
available.  

ARTICLE 14 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - GENERAL CONDITIONS  

-55 The following time limits shall apply to Steps of the Grievance Procedure unless 
extended by mutual agreement.  

-56 The grievance must be presented in writing by the District Steward to the District 
Supervisor of a unit or division within fifteen (15) working days after its alleged 
occurrence in order to be a proper matter for the Grievance Procedure.  

A. Time of Meetings  

-57 A meeting to discuss the grievance will be scheduled between the Union and the 
District Supervisor, the Administrative Head of a unit, division or college or the 
Employer's representative within seven (7) working days of receipt of the written 
grievance or appeal.  

B. Time of Answers  

-58 A written answer will be given to the Union by the District Supervisor and the 
Administrative Head within seven (7) working days from the date of the meeting at 
which the grievance was discussed. The Employer's representative will have ten (10) 
working days after the third step meeting to submit a written answer to the Union.  

C. Time of Appeal  

-59 Any grievance not appealed from an answer at Step I or II of the Grievance 
Procedure within seven (7) working days from receipt of said answer shall be 
considered settled on the basis of the last answer and not subject to further review.  

D. Nonconformance  

-60 If the Employer fails to schedule a meeting or to reply in writing within the prescribed 
time limits, the grievance may be appealed to the next higher step of the Grievance 
Procedure within seven (7) working days after the expiration of the applicable time 
limits. Nonconformance will in no way reduce or modify in any way the Employer's good 
faith effort to meet and/or answer any step of the grievance procedure.  

ARTICLE 15 - PRESENTING A GRIEVANCE  

-61 Any employee having a problem in connection with his/her employment shall 
present it to the Employer as follows:  

A. Immediate Supervisor  

-62 If an employee feels he/she has a problem, they may discuss it with their Immediate 
Supervisor or with their District Steward who may then discuss it with the employee's 
Immediate Supervisor.  

B. Step I  

-63 If the problem is not resolved, the District Steward may reduce the problem to 
writing and submit the grievance to the District Supervisor. A grievance shall be defined 
as a written dispute concerning the interpretation, application, and alleged violation of 
any of the provisions of this Agreement. The grievance shall be dated and signed by the 
aggrieved employee and his/her District Steward. The grievance shall set forth the facts, 
including dates, and provisions of the Agreement that are alleged to have been violated 
and the remedy desired. The grievance shall not be considered submitted until the 
District Supervisor or his/her designee receives the written grievance. At the time it is 
received, the grievance shall be dated and signed and a copy (if requested) returned to 
the District Steward. A meeting will be arranged between the District Steward and the 
District Supervisor to discuss the grievance. The District Supervisor will then answer the 
grievance in writing.  

-64 The Chief Steward may be present at any step or steps of the Grievance Procedure 
as well as an additional representative of the Employer, and if the Employer or the 
Union request that the aggrieved employee be present at any step or steps of the 
Grievance Procedure to participate in the discussion, they will be required to do so.  

-65 A written grievance involving a complaint of an individual employee must be signed 
by the grievant. The Chief Steward may sign and file at Step II a grievance which 
involves more than one District Steward within the same administrative unit. He/She 
may also sign and file at Step III a grievance which involves more than one 

administrative unit. The Chief Steward may file a grievance involving more than one (1) 
employee within an administrative unit at Step II.  

C. Step II  

-66 If the grievance is not resolved, the District Steward may refer the grievance to the 
Chief Steward who may submit the appeal in writing to the Administrative Head of the 
unit or division or his/her designee indicating the reasons why the written answer of the 
District Supervisor was unsatisfactory. A meeting will be scheduled between the Chief 
Steward, District Steward, and the representatives designated by the Administrative 
Head to discuss the grievance. The Administrative Head, or his/her designee will then 
answer the grievance in writing.  

D. Step III  

-67 If the Administrative Head's written answer is not satisfactory, the grievance may be 
referred to the Union President who may submit his/her appeal to the Office of 
Employee Relations indicating the reasons why the written answer of the Administrative 
Head was unsatisfactory. A meeting between no more than three (3) representatives of 
the Union and three (3) representatives designated by the Director of Employee 
Relations will be held to discuss the grievance within twenty (20) working days from the 
date the grievance is received by the Office of Employee Relations. After the Step III 
meeting the Employer's representative will submit a written answer to the Union.  

-68 The Union representatives may meet at a place designated by the Employer on the 
Employer's property for at least one-half (1/2) hour immediately preceding the hearing.  

E. Step IV  

-69 If the Office of Employee Relation's answer is not satisfactory, settlement may be 
determined by decision of an Arbitrator selected by the parties. The Union President 
within thirty (30) calendar days of the Step III answer will notify the Office of Employee 
Relations in writing that the Union wishes to appeal the grievance to arbitration.  

-70 In the event the parties cannot agree upon a Arbitrator within ten (10) working days 
of the date of the appeal, the Union shall, within fifteen (15) working days after failing to 
mutually agree on an Arbitrator file a Demand for Arbitration with the American 
Arbitration Association who shall select an Arbitrator and the Arbitrator shall establish a 
mutually acceptable hearing date. Grievances processed to arbitration by the Union 
which pose continuing financial liability to the Employer, shall, at the request of the 
Employer, displace grievances with arbitration dates which pose no financial liability to 
the Employer. Such displaced grievances shall be scheduled in the next open date.  

-71 In the event the Union fails to appeal the grievance to arbitration within the specified 
time limit or fails to file the Demand for Arbitration within the specified time limit, the 
grievance shall be considered settled based upon the Step III answer given by the 
Office of Employee Relations. The fees and approved expenses of the Arbitrator will be 
paid by the parties equally. The rules of the American Arbitration Association shall apply 
to all arbitration hearings.  

-72 Grievances, within the meaning of the grievance procedure and of this arbitration 
clause, shall consist only of disputes about the interpretation or application of the 
clauses of this Agreement and about alleged violations of this Agreement. The Arbitrator 
shall have no power to add to, or subtract from, or modify any of the terms of this 
Agreement, nor shall he/she substitute his/her discretion for that of the Employer or the 
Union where such discretion has been retained by the Employer or the Union, nor shall 
he/she exercise any responsibility or function of the Employer or the Union.  

-73 Finality of Decisions - There shall be no appeal from the Arbitrator's decision. Each 
such decision shall be final and binding upon the Union and its members, the employee 
or employees involved, and the Employer. The Union will discourage any attempt of its 
members and will not encourage or cooperate with any of its members in any appeal to 
any Court or Labor Board of a decision of the Arbitrator so long as the Arbitrator has not 
exceeded his/her contractual or legal authority. The Employer shall not appeal the 
decision of the Arbitrator to any Court or Labor Board so long as the Arbitrator has not 
exceeded his/her contractual or legal authority.  

ARTICLE 16 - COMPUTATION OF BACK WAGES  

-74 No claim for back wages shall exceed the amount of wages the employee would 
otherwise have earned at his/her regular rate.  

ARTICLE 17 - REPRIMAND, SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE  

-75 At the time a written reprimand, suspension or discharge is received, an employee 
may, and is encouraged to, request the presence of the District Steward, Alternate 
Steward or designated Union representative.  

A. Notice of Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge  

-76 In the event an employee is disciplined by written reprimand or written suspension 
or discharged by written notification, a copy of the discipline shall be given to the 
employee, a copy to the District Steward or Alternate Steward and a copy mailed to the 
local Union office at the time it is given to the employee. Such notice shall be specific 
and outline the reasons for the disciplinary action.  

B. Appeal of Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge  

-77 Should the reprimanded, suspended or discharged employee or the Union consider 
the discipline to be excessive and without just cause, the Chief Steward or his/her 
designated representative shall, within seven (7) regularly scheduled working days after 
the Union office receives the written notification of the discipline, submit it as a 
grievance. A grievance over a written letter of reprimand or suspension shall be 
submitted by the Chief Steward at Step II of the grievance procedure. A grievance over 
a discharge shall be submitted by the Chief Steward at Step III. Failure to submit a 
written grievance within the time limits shall constitute a waiver of all claims concerning 
such disciplinary action or discharge.  

C. Use of Past Record  

-78 In imposing any reprimand, suspension or discharge on a current charge, the 
Employer will not take into account any prior infractions of which the Employer had 
knowledge that occurred more than two (2) years previously. No derogatory inference 
will result and/or the material relating to disciplinary action be held against an employee 
in relation to his/her employment because of the need to retain records beyond the two 
(2) year period. Upon written request from a Local 1585 Bargaining unit employee, the 
records section will purge the employee's file of disciplinary actions over two (2) years 
old if there have been no intervening disciplinary actions. At that time, also, the records 
unit will instruct the originating department to purge its personnel file of the same 
material.  

ARTICLE 18 - SPECIAL CONFERENCES  

-79 Special Conferences for important matters will be arranged between the local 
President and the Employer or its designated representative upon request of either 
party. Such meeting shall be between at least two (2) representatives of the Employer 
and at least two (2) representatives of the Union. Arrangements for such Special 
Conferences shall be made in advance and an agenda of the matters to be taken up at 
the meeting shall be presented at the time the Conference is requested. Matters taken 
up in Special Conference shall be confined to those included on the agenda. The 
members of the Union shall not lose time or pay for time spent during their regularly 
scheduled work hours in such Special Conferences.  

ARTICLE 19 - MEDICAL DISPUTE  

-80 In the event of a dispute involving any employee's physical ability to perform their 
job at the University, when the employee is not satisfied with the determination of the 
University's physician, they may submit a report from a medical doctor of their own 

choosing and at their own expense. If the dispute still exists, at the request of the Union 
or the Employer, the University's physician and the employee's physician shall agree 
upon a third medical doctor to submit a report to the Employer and the employee, and 
the decision of such third party will be binding on both parties. The expense of the 
report of the third party shall be shared equally by the Employer and the employee. The 
prevailing determination will be effective at a date mutually agreed to by the Union and 
the University.  

ARTICLE 20 - TEMPORARY LAYOFFS  

-81 Due to vacation periods and conditions beyond the Employer's control, adjustments 
of the work force can be made without application of the layoff procedure of the 
Agreement. If such temporary adjustment continues for more than ten (10) working 
days, the Union can request the Employer to adjust the working force according to the 
layoff provision of the Agreement and the Employer will do so within five (5) working 
days thereafter.  

ARTICLE 21 - LAYOFFS  

-82 When there is a decrease in the work force, temporary and probationary employees 
will be laid off on a seniority unit wide basis provided the seniority employees can do the 
available work.  

-83 Seniority employees will be laid off according to bargaining unit seniority within a 
seniority unit, affected by a layoff, provided the greater seniority employees are able to 
perform the available work. However, the employer shall not be required to promote an 
employee at the time of layoff unless the employee has previously performed the higher 
rated job and is able to perform the work. Seniority employees laid off within a seniority 
unit shall be allowed to displace, by grade level, the least senior employees not affected 
by the layoff if they are able to perform the work. By grade level shall mean the to be 
laid off employee(s) shall first displace the least seniority like classified employee(s) in 
another seniority unit. If the to be laid off employee(s) is unable to perform the work 
and/or there is no least seniority like classified employee(s) with less seniority in another 
seniority unit, the to be laid off employee(s) may displace the least seniority 
employee(s) within the same pay grade level. If the to be laid off employee(s) is unable 
to perform the work and/or there is no least seniority employee(s) with less seniority 
within the same pay grade level, the to be laid off employee(s) may displace the least 
seniority employee(s) in the next immediately lower pay grade level and so on until the 
to be laid off employee(s) is able to displace another employee(s) or accept the layoff.  

-84 Disposition of these cases may be initiated at Step II or Step III of the grievance 
procedure.  

-85 Employees to be laid off for an indefinite period of time will have at least fourteen 
(14) calendar days notice of layoff. The Union President and District Steward will 
receive a list from the Employer of the employees being laid off on the same date the 
notices are issued to the employees.  

ARTICLE 22 - RECALL PROCEDURE  

-86 When the working force is increased after a layoff, employees will be recalled 
according to seniority, provided the greater seniority employees are able to perform the 
available work.  

-87 Seniority of an employee who is re-employed from a seniority list in the same 
seniority unit that he/she was laid off from shall be restored to his/her status as of the 
date he/she left the service of the Employer.  

-88 Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee at his/her last known address by 
registered or certified mail with Return Receipt Requested. If an employee fails to report 
for work within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of first attempt of delivery, it 
shall be considered a voluntary termination.  

-89 Employees who are recalled to work from a layoff must successfully pass a physical 
examination to be taken at the Health Center before they return to work.  

ARTICLE 23 - WORK OPPORTUNITY FOR LAID-OFF EMPLOYEES  

-90 The Employer, so far as reasonably practicable, before hiring new employees in any 
seniority unit, shall give work opportunity to seniority employees who are currently on 
layoff providing the employees can perform the available work.  

-91 Any employee who is recalled under Paragraph 90 will accrue seniority in the new 
unit effective as of the date of layoff. He/She shall retain seniority in his/her former unit 
until his/her seniority in the new unit equals the seniority he/she had in his/her former 
unit. At this time all of the seniority in his/her former unit shall be cancelled.  

-92 Should there still be seniority employees on layoff the Employer will attempt before 
hiring new employees to place them in any work opportunity within the University (and 
not represented by the Union) providing they are capable of performing the available 
work. Paragraph 92 shall not be a grievable item.  

-93 An employee recalled under Paragraph 92 shall continue to accrue University 
seniority. However, the employee's unit seniority will be frozen as of the date of 
reporting for recall.  

ARTICLE 24 - ABSENCES  

-94 An employee is not expected to absent himself/herself from work for any reason 
other than personal illness without making prior arrangements before the start of their 
shift with his/her Supervisor. Unless such prior arrangements are made, an employee 
who, for any reason, fails to report for work must immediately notify his/her Supervisor 
of his/her reason for being absent. If the absence is to continue beyond the first day, the 
employee must notify the Supervisor on a daily basis unless otherwise arranged with 
and specifically approved by the Supervisor. In proper cases, exceptions will be made.  

ARTICLE 25 - HOLIDAYS  

-95 The paid holidays are designated as:  

Labor Day  
Thanksgiving Day  
Friday after Thanksgiving Day  
Christmas (2 days)  
New Years (2 days)  
Memorial Day  
Independence Day  

-96 Whenever one of these holidays falls on a Saturday and the employee does not 
work on this day or on a scheduled day off in the employee's work week and no other 
day is observed as a holiday by the Employer, the employee will receive an additional 
day off with pay, the time to be arranged with his/her Supervisor. Whenever one of the 
above holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the 
designated holiday.  

-97 Employees who are required to work on any University designated holiday shall be 
paid at a rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times their regular rate of pay plus holiday pay. 
An employee shall not receive more than 2 1/2 times their regular rate of pay for hours 
worked on a holiday. Employees shall be scheduled to work on a designated holiday in 
accordance with Article 43 (Equalization of Overtime).  

-98 An employee who is on vacation or sickness and disability leave with pay when a 
holiday occurs will be paid for the holiday and no charge will be made against accrued 
vacation or sick leave credits.  

-99 There will be no holiday pay when:  

a. A holiday falls during a vacation period preceding termination (except when an 
employee is retiring).  

b. The employee is on a leave of absence without pay, on layoff, or on Regular 
Worker's Compensation, however, if an employee is laid off for the period 
between the end of fall semester and the beginning of winter semester because 
of lack of work, they will receive the same holiday pay given to the rest of the 
employees.  

c. An employee is absent on an unpaid leave the day before or the day after the 
holiday(s) unless his/her absence is excused. 

ARTICLE 26 - VACATIONS  

A. General Vacation Eligibility  

-100 The following schedule shows the monthly vacation accruals for all full-time 
employees. For part-time employees see Paragraph 41. Vacation time is credited at the 
end of each month.  
   

Service Months 

Accrual 

Completion of 6 months 
7th month through 60th 
month 
61st month through 120th 
month 

121st month 

48 hours 
8 hours per 

month 

12 hours per 

month 

16 hours per 

month 

Annual 
Accrual 

  

96 hours 

144 hours 

180 hours 

Special* Maximum 

Accrual 

  

128 hours 

192 hours 

240 hours 

*Additional time cannot exceed the special maximum amount shown.  

-101 A regular employee in the Housing and Food Services who works only during the 
school year (normally from September through June) is allowed twelve (12) days 
vacation for each school year worked. After sixty (60) months of service on a regular 
basis, an employee is entitled to eighteen (18) days vacation each year and after one 
hundred twenty (120) months is entitled to twenty-four (24) days vacation each year. 
Years of service must be consecutive and an employee will be given credit only for time 
actually worked in meeting the requirements of the progressive vacation plan.  

B. Method of Scheduling Vacation Days  

-102 The Employer is responsible for keeping the records of each employee's vacation 
account up to date. Upon request and within a reasonable period of time, the employee 
shall be informed of the number of vacation credits remaining in their account.  

-103 An employee may use his/her accumulated vacation leave in full hour increments 
at any time during the calendar year with permission of the supervisor(s) as long as it 
conforms with the requirements of his/her individual department, however, no 
department shall have a blanket policy which denies vacation in one hour increments. 
Except for requests originating from a pre-vacation scheduling program, approval or 
refusal of vacation requests must be returned to the employee within seven (7) working 
days or less.  

-104 Supervisory approval should be sought a minimum of one (1) working day prior to 
the desired time off.  

C. Other Provisions  

-105 There shall be no vacation accrual:  

a. During an approved leave of absence without pay.  

b. While on Regular Worker's Compensation.  

c. During an extended military leave of absence (credit for service months is 
granted).  

d. During a vacation period preceding termination.  

e. Beyond the "Special Maximum Accrual."  

f. While on layoff. 

-106 Employees will receive their base rates of pay during vacation.  

-107 In the event of a dispute regarding the choice of vacation time, whenever possible 
the seniority employee will be given his/her choice of vacation time.  

-108 If any of the holidays stipulated in the Agreement should occur during an 
employee's scheduled vacation, the employee shall receive one (1) additional vacation 
day for each holiday.  

-109 If an employee retires or terminates for any reason, he/she shall be paid for any 
accrued vacation credits.  

ARTICLE 27 - PERSONAL LEAVE HOURS  

-110 Personal leave with pay is granted to regular employees with the approval of their 
supervisors for attending to personal matters. Leave is given during each fiscal year in 
accordance with the following schedule:  
   

Employed  Hours 
7/1 - 12/31 
1/1 - 3/31 
4/1 - 5/31 
6/1 - 6/30 

24 
12 
6 
0 

-111 An employee terminating prior to January 1 shall only be eligible for one-half of the 
annual personal leave accrual, to be adjusted on the employee's final payroll check.  

-112 No carry-over of unused personal leave day credit from one fiscal year to another 
shall be allowed.  

-113 Supervisory approval should be sought a minimum of one (1) working day prior to 
the desired time off. It is understood that the use of personal leave is of a private nature.  

-114 The personal leave days or fractions thereof, credited to each full-time, regular 
employee shall be utilized and charged to him/her in increments of not less than one (1) 
full hour.  

ARTICLE 28 - SICK LEAVE  

-115 Every regular full-time employee shall accumulate and be credited with 104 hours 
of paid sick leave per year, to be credited at the rate of four (4) hours for each 
completed biweekly payroll period. Employees may use sick leave after they have 
completed their first month of service. Maximum accrual is 1200 hours.  

-116 Sick leave shall be available for use by employees for the following purposes:  

a. Acute personal illness or incapacity over which the employee has no 
reasonable control.  

b. Absence from work because of exposure to contagious disease which, 
according to public health standards, would constitute a danger to the health of 
others by the employee's attendance at work.  

c. Medical and dental care or treatment to the extent of time required to 
complete such appointment when it is not possible to arrange such 
appointments for non-duty hours.  

d. Illness or disability associated with pregnancy when a physician indicates that 
the employee is unable to perform all of the duties of her job. It is intended that 
absence due to these conditions, or maternity leave use is not a performance 
issue that adversely influences the appraisal rating on an employee's 
performance evaluation.  

e. Not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours sick leave credit per year for absence 
from work because of illness in the immediate family. Defined as: spouse, 
parents and anyone living within the household of the employee. An additional 
forty (40) hours may be used for the care of spouse, parent and dependent 
children. The total number of hours shall not exceed 64. 

-117 All employees shall accumulate sick leave from the date they are hired.  

-118 A regular full-time employee with ninety (90) days of continuous service who 
suffers injury compensable under the Worker's Compensation Act shall continue to 
receive his/her regular rate for time lost during the first seven (7) days not covered by 
the Worker's Compensation Act, provided he/she follows the instructions of the 
University Health Director, and provided he/she returns to work not later than the time 
recommended by the University Health Director. In the event of dispute, the Medical 
Dispute clause of this Agreement shall apply as regards the settlement of such dispute. 
Following the first seven (7) days, such seniority employee shall be paid the difference 
between the employee's regular wages and payment received under provisions of the 
Act, to be deducted from accumulated sick leave until his/her sick leave is exhausted.  

-119 Employees who have exhausted their sick leave credits, but are still unable to 
return to work, may as an option, continue to receive their pay against any unused 
vacation credits.  

-120 Employees who are laid off shall have available any unused sick leave previously 
earned, effective at the time they are recalled.  

-121 Employees who leave to enter the Armed Forces of the United States under the 
provisions of a selective service act, who are members of the Armed Forces and are 

called to active duty, or who enlist in the Armed Forces during a declared national 
emergency shall, upon reemployment by the Employer, have available any unused sick 
leave previously earned; provided that such reemployment takes place within ninety 
(90) days after discharge or release from active duty in the Armed Forces.  

-122 An employee using sick leave during a period that includes a scheduled holiday 
will be paid his/her base rate of pay for the holiday. He/She cannot be paid for both on 
the same day, nor will they be charged for a day of sick leave.  

-123 An employee who transfers from one unit to another shall transfer with them any 
unused sick leave time.  

-124 Employees who regularly work at least twenty (20) hours per week on a continuous 
basis shall accrue sick leave time proportionate to the hours worked as per Paragraph 
40.  

-125 Each District Supervisor shall be responsible for reviewing employee requests for 
sick leave and questioning their validity, and may request a statement from the 
employee's personal physician concerning the employee's disability before approving 
the payment of sick leave. The supervisor may, with reference to the needs of his/her 
district, require prompt notification from his/her employees of the necessity for taking 
sick leave. Prior notification should be provided by the employee before the beginning of 
their shift so the supervisor can make arrangements for the work schedules. Employees 
who find they are going to be absent longer than they first anticipated should notify their 
supervisor in accordance with the Absence Clause of the Agreement (Article 24).  

-126 All payment for sick leave shall be made at the employee's base rate of pay.  

-127 Accrued sick leave credits shall be used prior to receiving unpaid leave for illness 
or disability.  

ARTICLE 29 - FUNERAL LEAVE  

-128 If a death occurs among members of an employee's immediate family, the 
employee upon notification to the supervisor will be excused from work for three (3) 
consecutive work days without loss of pay to attend the funeral and make other 
necessary arrangements.  

-129 Definition of Employee's Immediate Family: The employee's immediate family shall 
be interpreted as including: spouse, child, stepchild, father, mother, sister, brother, 
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, 
grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchild, stepparents, half brother and half sister.  

-130 In the case of death of the employee's or spouse's step-brother, step-sister, uncle, 
aunt, nephew or niece, the employee will be excused from work without loss of pay for 
one (1) day, the day of the funeral, to attend the funeral. For the purpose of this article 
"aunt" shall include the uncle's wife, and "uncle" shall include the aunt's husband.  

-131 Permission may be granted to a reasonable number of employees in a unit who 
wish to attend the funeral of a fellow employee or former employee, without loss of pay, 
provided they return to work after the funeral. Employees who serve as pallbearers at a 
funeral of a fellow employee or former employee will be paid during the time they must 
be off the job.  

ARTICLE 30 - JURY DUTY  

-132 A regular employee who serves on jury duty or is required to testify pursuant to a 
court-issued subpoena, if the subpoena does not require the employee to testify against 
the University, will be paid the difference between jury duty or witness fees and the 
base pay. An employee is expected to report for regular University duty when 
temporarily excused from attendance at court. When requested, an employee on jury 
duty will be assigned to the first shift. An employee shall notify their supervisor of jury 
and/or subpoena dates as soon as they are known.  

ARTICLE 31 - UNION RELEASE TIME  

A. President and Chief Steward  

-133 It is agreed that the Employer will allow the President and the Chief Steward of 
Local 1585 100% paid release time to carry out the duties of their respective offices. It is 
understood that they will confine their activities to the campus and the East Lansing 
Union Office.  

-134 The Union President and Chief Steward will be compensated at the base rate of 
pay they were receiving at the time of their election or selection.  

-135 The Union President and Chief Steward shall not be eligible for overtime in their 
former units.  

-136 The Union President and Chief Steward shall be eligible to bid on posted 
vacancies. If selected to fill a vacancy, the employee will state whether they expect to fill 
the vacancy permanently or return to his/her Union Office upon completion of the trial 
period. When the trial period is completed, the employee shall either remain in the new 
position or return to his/her Union office receiving the base pay of the new classification.  

-137 When either the Union President or the Chief Steward relinquishes their office, 
they shall have return rights to the same classification and rate of pay in their former 
unit unless the Employer's or the employee's circumstances have so changed as to 
make it impossible or unreasonable to do so.  

-138 While the President and Chief Steward are in office, seniority shall continue to 
accrue.  

B. Executive Board Members  

-139 In the event the President or the Chief Steward are required to take a leave from 
their elected position due to personal illness, the Local, after fourteen (14) calendar 
days may notify the Office of Employee Relations that it intends to install in the vacant 
position of the President or Chief Steward, an acting President or Chief Steward and the 
person assuming the duties of the President or Chief Steward shall be granted the full 
contractual benefits under the Labor Agreement.  

-140 Between 5 p.m. and 7 a.m. two (2) executive board members may be released 
with pay to attend a regularly scheduled or special executive board meeting not to 
exceed two (2) hours per month.  

-141 In the event the President or the Chief Steward are required to take a leave from 
their elected position due to personal illness, the Local, after fourteen (14) calendar 
days may notify the Office of Employee Relations that it intends to install in the vacant 
position of the President or Chief Steward, an acting President or Chief Steward and the 
person assuming the duties of the President or Chief Steward shall be granted the full 
contractual benefits under the Labor Agreement.  

C. Union Education  

-142 Release time with pay will be granted to those employees who are elected or 
selected by the Union to attend education classes conducted by the Union or official 
Union business. The number will not exceed ten (10) employees at any one time and 
the total number of hours will not exceed two hundred (200) hours in any one (1) 
calendar year. The Union agrees to give the Office of Employee Relations as much 
advance notice as possible concerning such requests for release time.  

D. Union Business  

-143 Members of the Union elected to local Union positions or selected by the Union to 
do work which takes them from their employment with the Employer shall at the written 

request of the Union receive a temporary leave of absence without pay for periods not 
to exceed two (2) years or the term of office, whichever may be shorter.  

-144 If the member's position or work for which these leaves were granted is terminated 
for any reason, the Union shall within ten (10) calendar days notify the Employer in 
writing of the termination date. The member shall within the same ten (10) calendar day 
period advise the Employer in writing of his/her intent to return to the University and 
shall return to work within thirty (30) calendar days of the termination date or forfeit all 
rights of employment with the Employer.  

ARTICLE 32 - UNPAID LEAVES  

-145 The following unpaid leaves may be granted for cases of exceptional need upon 
the request of employees who have acquired seniority under this Agreement.  

A. Excused Absences  

-146 Excused absences may be granted by the immediate supervisor but shall not 
exceed ten (10) consecutive days unless approved as a leave of absence. Normally 
excused absences will not exceed ten (10) working days in each fiscal year.  

-147 Excused absences will not require the use of accrued paid time (i.e., personal 
leave or vacation), except for failures to report to work due to inclement weather or 
transportation problems.  

-148 Employees on excused absence will continue to accrue all benefits.  

B. Personal Leaves  

-149 Personal leaves of absence may be arranged with the immediate supervisor for up 
to three (3) months. Such leaves may be extended in additional three (3) month periods 
but may not exceed one (1) year.  

-150 Personal leave may be used for such reasons as the settlement of an estate, 
serious illness of a member of the employee's family, child care, and an extended trip. 
Personal leaves shall not be used for the purpose of obtaining employment elsewhere.  

-151 Personal leaves may also be granted for educational purposes to an employee 
with five (5) or more years of continuous service. An employee returning from a leave of 
absence for educational purposes will not have return rights to their former position, but 
will have bidding rights to posted vacancies. Educational courses taken during a leave 
of absence are not reimbursable under Article 51.  

-152 If an employee wishes to take an extended leave of absence (to exceed ten (10) 
days) for reasons other than medical, this leave may be granted without the mandatory 
use of vacation time and/or personal leave.  

C. Leave of Absence for Illness or Disability  

-153 A leave of absence may be granted to an employee suffering an extended illness 
or disability who is unable to return to work and has exhausted all sick leave accrual.  

-154 Leave of this kind may be extended to a maximum of two (2) years.  

-155 Employees must present a physician's transcript concerning their illness or 
disability at the time the employee reports for the required physical examination prior to 
returning to active employment.  

ARTICLE 33 - MILITARY LEAVE  

A. Extended Service  

-156 Upon application, a military leave of absence (without pay) will be granted to 
employees who are employed in other than temporary positions. This applies to 
employees who are inducted through a selective service system or voluntary enlistment, 
or if the employee is called through membership in the National Guard or reserve 
component into the Armed Forces of the United States.  

B. Short Tours of Duty  

-157 Regular employees who belong to the National Guard, United States Reserve 
Corps, or other Federal or State military organizations, will be allowed the normal fifteen 
(15) calendar days leave of absence when ordered to active duty for training. In the 
event these same employees are ordered to active duty for the purpose of handling civil 
disorders, they will be allowed ten (10) additional calendar days leave of absence during 
a fiscal year. The Employer will pay the difference between the employee's military pay 
and base pay, if their military pay is less. If the employee takes military leave during 
his/her vacation, they will receive full pay.  

ARTICLE 34 - EDUCATIONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR VETERANS  

-158 Employees who are reinstated in accordance with the Universal Military Training 
Act, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations, will be granted leaves of 
absence for a period equal to their seniority, but not to exceed two (2) years (without 

pay) in order to attend school full time under applicable federal laws in effect on the date 
of this Agreement.  

-159 An employee who fails to notify the Employer within thirty (30) calendar days of the 
expiration of a leave of absence in excess of one (1) year duration, will be given written 
notice within twenty-one (21) calendar days prior to the expiration of said leave.  

ARTICLE 35 - GENERAL CONDITIONS  

A. Leave of Absence with Pay  

-160 Leaves of absence with pay shall be granted for purposes as described in Articles 
25 through 31.  

-161 An employee shall accrue sick leave credits and vacation credits during a leave of 
absence with pay, and employee benefits shall continue for the duration of the leave.  

-162 All requests for leaves of absence shall be made with the employee's immediate 
supervisor.  

B. Leave of Absence without Pay (Including Layoff)  

-163 Regular employees who have completed their probationary period are eligible for 
unpaid leaves of absence.  

-164 All leaves of absence must be approved by the supervisor, administrative head of 
the unit, and the Office of Human Resource Services. They may be taken for the 
reasons as specified in Articles 32 through 34.  

-165 During an unpaid leave of absence or layoff, an employee will not accrue vacation 
or sick leave nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provided by this 
Agreement. (Except excused absences.)  

-166 Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shall 
accumulate during leaves of absence or extensions, and layoffs.  

-167 The employees must check with the Benefits Office about maintaining the 
employee group benefits for which they are eligible or enrolled during leaves of absence 
subject to and consistent with these plans.  

C. Return to Active Employment  

-168 The Employer at its option and without cost to the employee may require that a 
physician or physicians of its choosing examine the employee before returning him/her 
to active employment.  

-169 An employee returning from a leave of absence will be placed in their former 
classification and district unless the Employer's or the employee's circumstances have 
so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so.  

ARTICLE 36 - FILLING OF VACANCIES  

-170 The Employer will fill vacancies on a seniority basis first within a seniority unit 
where a vacancy occurs with employees who bid on posted vacancies and possess the 
minimum qualifications (as stated in the Classification Description) for the vacancy 
under consideration. Unsatisfactory work performance may be a proper cause for denial 
of consideration for a vacancy if substantiated.  

-171 If there are no qualified bidders or no bidders from within the seniority unit affected, 
the Employer will select the most senior applicant in Local 1585 who possesses the 
minimum qualifications of the classification. Unsatisfactory work performance may be a 
proper cause for denial of consideration for a vacancy if substantiated.  

-172 Vacancies will be posted for a period of five (5) working days in a conspicuous 
place in employees' work areas. All job postings will state the classification, rate of pay, 
location, shift, minimum qualifications, and starting time. A copy of the Position Vacancy 
Notice will be provided to the Steward and the Union on the first day of the posting. 
Employees must apply for vacancies by submitting the employee request for 
consideration for nonacademic position vacancy to the office of Human Resource 
Services by the closing date specified on the position vacancy notice (minimum five (5) 
working days). A copy of the list of those employees who bid on the posting together 
with the individual selected shall be mailed to the Local 1585 office.  

-173 Postings shall remain posted for five (5) working days before the vacancy is filled. 
Temporary transfers may be used, if necessary, during the posting period.  

-174 Vacancies shall be filled within ninety (90) days of the posting or reposted.  

-175 An employee shall be limited to applying for two vacancies per posting. If the 
employee is the most senior applicant on the initial interview list for both vacancies in 
his/her seniority unit he/she shall be notified of his/her seniority ranking by the seniority 
unit and must specify which vacancy he/she prefers. An employee who has bid on more 
than one vacancy and accepts one of them thereby relinquishes any claim to others for 
which the employee applied. In cases where employees with the same seniority date 

apply for a posted vacancy, they shall be chosen in alphabetical order to fill that 
vacancy.  

-176 If it should become necessary in filling a vacancy to bypass an employee's 
seniority, reasons for denial shall be given in writing to such employee with a copy to 
the Steward of the district.  

-177 The employee who is selected shall be granted up to 520 hours of work trial period 
to determine:  

a. The employee's ability to perform the work.  

b. The employee's desire to remain on the job. 

-178 During the first three weeks of the trial period, the employee shall have the 
opportunity to revert to his/her former position. For the remainder of the trial period, 
he/she may revert to his/her former classification. If the employee is unsatisfactory in 
the new position after two hundred forty (240) hours of work, reasons shall be given in 
writing by the employer if requested by the employee. The employer may then return 
the employee to his/her former classification. In such event the employer will 
compensate the employee for the remaining hours of the trial period at the rate of fifty 
(50) percent of the promotional increase or fifteen (15) cents per hour, whichever is 
greater. The matter may then become a proper subject for the grievance procedure.  

-179 The employee who is promoted will receive the job rate of the new classification 
when they begin the trial period of the new position.  

-180 An employee who has been notified they have been accepted to fill a posted 
vacancy shall assume the new position no later than 3 weeks from the effective date the 
vacancy is scheduled to be filled.  

-181 An employee who bids on a vacancy that is posted under this section and is 
subsequently selected and placed in the vacancy shall remain assigned to the location, 
except for promotional or demotional opportunities, for twelve (12) months before 
becoming eligible to bid on another posted vacancy. Such employees may bid on 
promotional or demotional vacancies after three (3) months.  

-182 If an employee is temporarily assigned to a job with a higher maximum rate, and 
he/she is capable of doing the job, he/she shall receive an increase of fifteen (15) cents 
per hour, or the probationary rate, whichever is greater, but in no event shall they be 
paid more than the maximum rate of the job to which he/she is temporarily assigned. If 
the temporary assignment in a higher classification is for three (3) hours or more, the 

employee will receive the increase in pay for eight (8) hours. An employee who is 
assigned on a temporary basis to a job in a lower pay grade shall have his/her hourly 
pay rate maintained. This section shall not be used to circumvent the posting 
requirement as stated in this Article. However, if the employee is so assigned because 
of medical restriction, the rate of pay shall be that of the lower position. An employee so 
affected may be eligible for long term disability consideration in accordance with 
applicable provisions.  

-183 The parties recognize the mutual commitment to and the Employer's program for 
Affirmative Action. To that end therefore, it may be necessary to fill vacancies for 
Affirmative Action purposes. The parties agree to cooperate to the extent possible for 
the achievement of this objective in the following manner.  

A. Underutilization shall be mutually identified by the parties.  

B. When a vacancy is posted that has been identified as underutilized, the 
group(s) for which it is underutilized shall be identified on the position posting.  

C. The University will be permitted to fill the vacancy with the most senior 
qualified individual from the identified group(s) possessing minimum 
qualifications from within the bargaining unit.  

D. In the event there is no qualified individual from the identified group(s) within 
the bargaining unit, the Employer shall be permitted to fill the posted vacancy 
with non-bargaining unit individuals with the concurrence of the Union.  

E. In the event any dispute arises as to the intent or application of this provision, 
the parties agree to utilize the process of Expedited Arbitration for resolution.  

F. Such actions as listed above shall bypass the appropriate provisions of Article 
36. 

ARTICLE 37 - TRANSFERS  

-184 Transfer of Employees: If an employee with seniority is transferred from one 
seniority unit to another seniority unit as described in Article 4, Seniority Units, the 
employee will be given seniority in the new unit equivalent to that which they had 
accrued in the former unit and all of his/her seniority in their former unit shall be 
cancelled.  

-185 If an employee is transferred to a position under the Employer not included in 
Local 1585, and is thereafter transferred again to a position within Local 1585, the 

employee shall not have accumulated seniority while working in the position to which 
he/she was transferred. This shall not be applied to employees who were transferred to 
a position under the Employer not included in Local 1585 before July 1, 1971.  

-186 Employees transferring under the above circumstances, Paragraphs 184 and 185, 
shall retain all rights accrued for the purposes of any benefits provided for in this 
Agreement.  

-187 If and when operations or divisions or fractions thereof are transferred from one 
location to another for a period of more than seven (7) calendar days, employees 
affected will be given consideration to transfer on the basis of seniority, desire and 
classification. Location exchange will be considered in such cases. Unsatisfactory work 
performance may be a proper cause for denial of consideration for a vacancy if 
substantiated.  

-188 The Employer agrees that in any movement of work not covered above in 
Paragraphs 184, 185, and 186, the Employer will discuss the movements with the Union 
in order to provide for the protection of the seniority of the employees involved. In any 
determination to contract work, the Employer will observe and abide by the provisions of 
the Public Employment Relations Act, as amended.  

ARTICLE 38 - CLASSIFICATIONS  

-189 The Employer retains the right to eliminate, change and establish classifications. In 
the event a new classification is established or an existing classification is changed, the 
Employer shall place it in an existing pay grade in the Wage Schedule or in a new pay 
grade, on the basis of the relative value of the elements of the new or changed 
classification in comparison with the elements of existing Union classifications.  

-190 The following procedure will be used whenever a new or changed classification is 
placed in the Wage Schedule, as provided in Paragraph 189 of this article.  

a. The Employer will provide the Union with a written copy of the new or 
changed classification which shall describe the job content sufficiently to identify 
the classification.  

b. Upon receipt of the Employer's classification description, a reasonable 
number of representatives of the Union may meet with representatives of the 
Employer to discuss the new or changed classification and the placement in the 
Wage Schedule.  

c. If there is a disagreement with placement in the Wage Schedule, a grievance 
concerning compliance with Paragraph 189 of this article may be processed 
through the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure, provided it is submitted in 
writing at Step III of the Grievance Procedure within seven (7) working days after 
the Union is afforded the opportunity to discuss the matter with the Employer. If 
such a grievance is processed through Arbitration, the Arbitrator shall have no 
power or authority to revise the classification or to establish or change the wage 
rate, but only to determine whether the proper placement has been made in the 
Wage Schedule in accordance with Paragraph 188 of this article. 

-191 In the event the Employer eliminates a classification, prior notice shall be given to 
the Union. The Employer agrees that classifications will not be eliminated for the 
purpose of undermining the Union. Disputes concerning violations of this provision may 
be submitted at Step III of the grievance procedure.  

ARTICLE 39 - WAGE RATE INCREASE PLAN  

-192 Effective August 1, 1999, the job rate for Pay Grades I through XXIII shall be 
increased 3% per hour.  

a. For the 1999 calendar year a $250.00 lump sum Holiday payment to all 
regular employees on the payroll as of December 1, 1999, as a one-time 
payment. Payment shall be made during the month of December 1999. 

-193 Effective August 1, 2000, the job rate for Pay Grades I through XXIII shall be 
increased 3% per hour.  

-194 Effective August 1, 2001, the job rate for Pay Grades I through XXIII shall be 
increased 1% per hour.  

-195 The probationary rate shall be five (5%) percent less than the job rate for pay 
grades II through XIV. The probationary rate shall be ten (10%) percent less than the 
job rate for pay grades XV through XXIII.  

-196 Newly hired employees shall receive the probationary rate of the applicable grade 
level during the probationary period and shall receive the job rate of the applicable 
grade level upon completion of the probationary period within the classification.  

ARTICLE 40 - RED CIRCLE RATES  

-197 All regular full-time employees currently receiving "Red Circle Rates", i.e. rates in 
excess of the maximum rate for a specific classification within a certain grade level will 
continue to receive general increases as provided for in the Agreement. Any "Red Circle 

Rates" after the effective date of this Agreement shall be determined mutually. 
Employees "Red Circled" after the effective date of this agreement shall have their rates 
frozen until such time as the new rates surpass the "red circle" rates.  

ARTICLE 41 - WORKING HOURS  

A. Shift Differential  

-198 Effective August 1, 1993, employees who work on the second or third shift shall 
receive, in addition to their regular pay, fifty (50) cents per hour and forty-five (45) cents 
per hour, respectively, additional compensation. Such differential is to be added to the 
total wages and does not increase the hourly rate and will be paid for all hours worked 
on a shift.  

B. Shift Hours  

-199 The first shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 5:00 a.m., but before 1:00 
p.m. The second shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 1:00 p.m. but before 
9:00 p.m. The third shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 9:00 p.m. but before 
5:00 a.m.  

C. Shift Preference  

-200 Shift preference will be granted on the basis of seniority within the classification as 
openings occur. The transfer to the desired shift will be effected within two (2) weeks 
following the end of the current pay period within which a written request is made, 
provided the employee can do the work.  

a. An employee who is assigned to a specific shift based on his/her request shall 
remain assigned to that shift and not be eligible for another shift preference 
transfer for a period of six (6) months. 

D. Rest Periods  

-201 Employees may take a rest period of not more than fifteen (15) minutes for each 
half day of work. Rest periods should be taken at a time and in a manner that does not 
interfere with the efficiency of the work unit. The rest period is intended to be a recess to 
be preceded and followed by an extended work period; thus, it may not be used to 
cover an employee's late arrival to work or early departure, nor may it be regarded as 
accumulative if not taken.  

E. Wash-Up Time  

-202 Employees will be given the necessary time prior to punching out, to wash up and 
change uniforms if used.  

F. Call-In Pay Show-Up Pay  

-203 An employee reporting for emergency duty at the Employer's request for work 
which the employee had not been notified of in advance and which is outside of and not 
continuous with the employee's regular work period, shall be guaranteed at least three 
(3) hours pay and three (3) hours work at the rate of time and one-half.  

-204 An employee who reports for scheduled work and no work is available will receive 
three (3) hours pay at the employee's regular straight time rate.  

G. Overtime  

-205 Overtime is defined as hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a day, or forty (40) 
hours in an employee's work week for which the employee is paid time-and-one-half 
his/her regular rate of pay, unless otherwise specified in Article 42.  

-206 For the purpose of computing overtime, all hours paid will be considered time 
worked.  

-207 Overtime shall not be pyramided, compounded or paid twice for the same time 
worked.  

-208 In the event that a work schedule(s) is converted to four ten-hour days per week, 
time-and-one-half the regular straight time rate will be paid to employees who work over 
40 hours per work week.  

ARTICLE 42 - TIME-AND-ONE-HALF IN SPECIFIC AREAS OF WORK  

-209 Time-and-one-half the regular rate will be paid to employees who work over forty 
(40) hours in a work week in the following specific areas of work:  

a. Building Services Custodian classification within the Physical Plant.  

b. All employees in the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics. 

-210 Time-and-one-half the regular straight time rate will be paid to all employees who 
work over eighty (80) hours in any pay period of two (2) calendar weeks in the College 
of Agriculture and Natural Resources.  

ARTICLE 43 - EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME HOURS  

-211 Overtime hours shall be divided as equally as practicable among employees in the 
same classification in their district. An up-to-date list showing overtime hours and unit 
seniority date will be posted in a prominent place in each district before the 15th of each 
month.  

-212 Whenever overtime is required, the person with the least number of overtime hours 
in that classification within the district will, except in necessary emergencies, be called 
first and so on down the list in an attempt to equalize the overtime hours. After 
exhausting this procedure and the need still exists, the Employer may require the least 
senior available, qualified employee to work. The Union reserves the right to grieve 
what is an emergency. Employees in other classifications may be called if there is a 
shortage of employees in the classification needed. In such cases they would be called 
on the basis of least hours of overtime in their classification provided they are capable 
of doing the work. When employees are notified by telephone, they will be called in 
order of lowest hours first.  

-213 For the purpose of this clause, time not worked because the employee was 
unavailable, or did not choose to work, will be charged the average number of overtime 
hours of the employees working during that overtime period (2 hour minimum).  

-214 On July 1 each year, the amount of overtime hours credited to each employee will 
be reduced equal to the amount of overtime hours credited to the employee at the 
bottom of the overtime list and only the excess overtime hours for each employee shall 
be carried forward.  

-215 An employee who has changed classifications will be charged with the highest 
number of overtime hours that exist in the new classification on the day he/she was 
reclassified.  

-216 When an employee terminates his/her term as Chief Steward, President, Steward, 
or Alternate Steward, his/her overtime hours shall be disregarded and he/she shall 
assume the average number of hours in his/her classification in his/her district, unless 
he/she is currently charged with less than average hours.  

ARTICLE 44 - LONGEVITY PAY  

-217 All regular employees of the Employer hired prior to August 19, 1996 shall be 
entitled to receive longevity pay for length of continuous service with the Employer 
according to the following rules and schedule of payment.  

-218 LONGEVITY YEAR The longevity year is defined as the twelve (12) month period 
beginning October 1 of each year and ending September 30. For longevity payment 

purposes only, a year of continuous full-time service is defined as any longevity year in 
which the employee is actively employed for at least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar 
days).  

-219 Longevity pay shall be computed as a percentage of the employee's regular 
annual base wage. Base wage shall be that wage which an employee is being paid on 
September 1, 1988, of the calendar year in which the longevity payment is due. The 
annual base wage shall be equal to the employee's hourly rate times 2080 hours as of 
the first pay period in September. If an employee is not on the payroll at that time, the 
hourly rate to be used will be the hourly rate upon his/her return. Base wage shall not 
include overtime or premium pay.  

-220 INITIAL ELIGIBILITY The last date of hire as a regular employee will be used as 
the normal longevity date. To qualify for the first longevity payment, an employee must 
have completed six (6) years of continuous service as of October 1 of any year. To 
qualify for initial eligibility, the employee must have been on active employment for at 
least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) for six (6) consecutive years and an 
employee on October 1 of that year to receive the longevity payment. Periods of active 
employment of less than 39 calendar weeks will be counted toward the employee's 
years of continuous service.  

-221 CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY After establishing initial eligibility, employees must be 
actively employed for 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) during the longevity year 
and an employee as of October 1 to receive the longevity payment on December 1. 
Periods of active employment of less than 39 calendar weeks, while not qualifying the 
employee for payment of longevity, shall be counted toward the employee's years of 
continuous service.  

-222 Payments to employees who are eligible each October 1 will be paid on December 
1. No longevity payment as shown in the schedule below shall be made for that portion 
of an employee's regular wage which is in excess of $9,500.  

-223 Employees terminating prior to October 1 will receive a prorated longevity 
payment.  

-224 All regular employees, as of the date of the ratification of the Successor 
Agreement, shall be ?grandfathered? under the current Longevity Pay program. 
Employees who hire into the bargaining unit after the date of the ratification of the 
Successor Agreement will be, and shall remain, ineligible for the Longevity Pay 
program.  

-225 Longevity Pay Schedule  
   

Continuous Service 

Annual Percentage 

6 or more and less than 10 years 
10 or more and less than 14 years 
14 or more and less than 18 years 
18 or more and less than 22 years 
22 or more and less than 26 years 
26 or more years 

2% 
3% 
4% 
5% 
6% 
8% 

ARTICLE 45 - HEALTH CARE COVERAGE  

-226 Regular employees may enroll for health coverage within sixty (60) days of their 
initial employment date. Employees may enroll in Blue Cross/Blue Shield, Blue Care 
Network or Physicians Health Plan (HMO'S).  

-227 For a regular full-time employee with single, two-party, or family coverage, the 
Employer shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the total monthly premium cost of 
basic Blue Cross/Blue Shield coverage. The Employer contribution for three-quarter 
time employees will be seventy-five percent (75%) of the full-time contribution of the 
Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan and for one-half time employees will be fifty percent (50%) 
of the full-time contribution of the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Plan. In no event shall it 
exceed the full-time contribution for equivalent coverage. The monthly premium for 
dependents on sponsored dependent riders will be deducted from the employee's 
paycheck.  

-228 The University contribution for coverage under one of the Health Maintenance 
Organizations selected by the employee, will not exceed the contribution schedule 
(single, two-party, family, etc.) for basic Blue Cross/Blue Shield coverage.  

-229 Effective June 30, 1997, employees enrolled in the Physicians Health Plan or Blue 
Care Network will assume a ten (10) dollar "Point of Service" co-pay.  

-230 Effective June 30, 1997, employees enrolled in the Physicians Health Plan or Blue 
Care Network will assume a five (5) dollar prescription drug co-pay.  

-231 While an employee is on layoff and collecting Unemployment Compensation, the 
Employer will make its normal contribution toward the cost of the Health Plan premium 
for two (2) months beyond the month of separation due to layoff.  

-232 Upon evidence of other insurance coverage, employees eligible for MSU health 
care coverage are eligible to opt out of the MSU Health Plan each year during the May 
Health Plan Open Enrollment to be effective July 1 through June 30 and receive a 
$600.00 lump-sum special check payment to be made in the month of July of the next 
plan year. Re-enrollment will be allowed during the plan year if proof of involuntary loss 
of other insurance coverage is provided within thirty-one days of loss of coverage. The 
employee would receive a prorated waiver payment in July.  

ARTICLE 46 - DENTAL PROGRAM  

-233 Dental Program - The dental program will be provided to all regular full-time 1585 
members. Fifty percent (50%) or greater regular part-time employees may enroll 
themselves and their eligible dependents with a proportionate University contribution 
(based on the number of dependents covered.)  

a. Fees for the below mentioned services will be covered on a usual, customary, 
and reasonable basis with a fifty percent (50%) co-payment.  

b. Basic diagnostic, preventative, emergency palliative, restorative, oral surgery, 
endodontics, periodontics, and prosthodontics subject to a $600 annual 
maximum per individual.  

c. Orthodontics subject to a $600 lifetime maximum per individual.  

d. The dental program benefits will be provided consistent with the carrier's 
conditions and procedures. 

-234 Regular employees will have the option to select a managed care dental plan. The 
program will be provided by a carrier selected by MSU. These benefits will be provided 
consistent with the carrier?s conditions and procedures. For additional information 
contact the Benefits Office.  

ARTICLE 47 - DISABILITY PLANS  

A. Long-Term Disability Plan  

-235 A University-paid Long-Term Disability Plan will be granted to all regular full-time 
employees with at least thirty-six (36) continuous full-time equivalent (FTE) service 
months.  

-236 The LTD Program provides after a one hundred eighty (180) day disability waiting 
period or after exhausting all sick leave accruals, whichever is later, for a continuation of 

the monthly benefit equal to 60 percent of base salary up to a maximum $3,000 benefit 
including any benefits from Social Security or Worker's Compensation programs.  

-237 The LTD Program additionally pays the employee's normal contribution and the 
University contribution to the base retirement program made available through the 
University and selected by the employee.  

-238 At the Employer's expense, the employee may continue to participate in the 
Employee Paid Life, health care and dental programs.  

-239 For additional information, contact the Benefits Office.  

B. Extended Disability Plan  

-240 Eligibility - Regular full-time employees with at least sixty (60) continuous full-time 
equivalent (FTE) service months are eligible for extended disability leave.  

-241 Usage - In cases which are expected to result in total disability, eligible employees 
will be granted extended disability leave with full pay and benefits for up to six (6) 
months or until all accruals are exhausted, whichever occurs later. This leave will 
include the aggregate of accumulated sick leave, vacation and personal time to the 
extent these benefits are due the employee.  

C. Workers' Compensation (Long-Term)  

-242 An employee who is receiving regular Workers' Compensation for a period in 
excess of six (6) months shall receive, at the Employer's expense, life insurance and 
health care coverage for the period covered by Workers' Compensation. If it is 
determined by Benefits that the injured employee will be off work in excess of six (6) 
months, the above benefit may be implemented upon such determination without 
requiring premium payments from the affected employee.  

ARTICLE 48 - EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PROGRAM  

-243 Coverage is available to regular full-time and part-time employees an optional 
Employee-Paid Life program. The program is entirely funded from employee premiums 
and rates are subject to future group experience. The insurance is decreasing term with 
no cash or loan value and coverage may be selected up to $187,500 depending upon 
age and the plan selected.  

ARTICLE 49 - DEATH BENEFIT (EXPANDED LIFE PLAN)  

-244 The Employer will provide, at no employee cost, a fully paid life insurance program 
to all regular full-time employees at the time of employment.  

-245 This program will provide a life insurance benefit in the case of death of an eligible 
employee on active duty status (including unpaid leaves of absence of 180 days or less) 
equal to one times the annual wage (i.e. basic hourly rate times 2080).  

-246 The employee may designate a beneficiary if desired; if no beneficiary is 
designated, the life benefit payment will be made in the following order: A. spouse, B. 
children, C. parents or D. brothers and sisters. If no survivors, payment will be made in 
a lump sum to the estate.  

ARTICLE 50 - RETIREMENT BENEFITS  

A. Base Retirement Program  

-247 Michigan State University provides a base retirement program with the Teachers 
Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), College Retirement and Equities Fund 
(CREF) and other retirement programs made available through the University and 
selected by the employee.  

-248 Eligibility and Participation - Regular full-time and part-time employees are eligible 
for participation in TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs made available through the 
University, and selected by the employee, in accordance with the following policies:  

a. The program is optional to employees under age 35 or who are over age 62 at 
the time of employment.  

b. The program is required as a condition of employment for employees who 
have attained age 35.  

c. Once required participation commences, it is not possible to withdraw from 
TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs made available through the University, 
and selected by the employee while employed at the University. 

-249 Premium Contribution - The TIAA-CREF Retirement Annuity or other retirement 
programs made available through the University, and selected by the employee, are 
financed by a five (5%) percent deduction from an employee's base wage, overtime and 
shift differential with the University contributing ten (10%) percent.  

-250 Complete details concerning the provisions of the University's TIAA-CREF 
Retirement Annuity Plan or other retirement programs made available through the 
University, and selected by the employee, may be obtained from the Benefits Office.  

B. Retirement for Employees Hired Prior to January 1, 1973  

-251 Effective January 1, 1973, the University Retirement Program ceased to exist. 
However, to insure that no employee lost credit for prior years of service, the following 
guidelines were established to provide that an employee will receive no less than what 
an improved plan formula would give him or her upon retirement.  

-252 Those persons employed prior to January 1, 1973, who were 55 years of age or 
older and/or had 25 years of service on January 1, 1973, could elect to remain subject 
to the improved University Plan formula described below.  

-253 The formula governing the old Retirement Plan was improved by basing pensions 
on an amount equal to the highest three (3) year average earnings, multiplied by two 
(2%) percent for each year of service, with a $3,600 ceiling.  

-254 For employees participating in TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made 
available through the University, and selected by the employee, with a University 
contribution, this new formula will be applied for each employee at retirement and will 
become the minimum received by the employee.  

-255 The annuity value, at the time of retirement, purchased by MSU's contributions to 
TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available through the University, 
and selected by the employee, will be compared to the pension amount as computed in 
Paragraph 249 above, and the employee will receive the larger of the two figures. 
Employee contributions to TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available 
through the University, and selected by the employee, (retroactive to 1-1-73) will provide 
additional annuity income.  

-256 Those employees not participating in TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs 
made available through the University, and selected by the employee, will have their 
retirement income figured solely on the improved formula plus a ten (10%) percent 
addition added to the base pension prior to actuarial reduction or the selection of a 
survivor option.  

-257 Employees who terminate without meeting the minimum requirements for 
retirement will receive a retirement pension from the contributions made to the individual 
TIAA-CREF annuity contract or other retirement programs made available through the 
University, and selected by the employee, consistent with provisions of those contracts.  

C. University Retirement  

-258 University Retirement Defined - University retirement shall be defined as 1) 
attainment of age 62 or older with 15 years of service, or 2) at any age with 25 years of 
service. Interruptions in employment of less than one (1) year duration shall not 
constitute a break in service as it pertains to retirement.  

-259 Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible to 
maintain group health care and dental plan coverage and receive the Employer 
contribution. Employees participating in the Employee-Paid Life Plan at the time of 
retirement or terminating at age 65 or thereafter and who were enrolled prior to July 1, 
1977, shall receive a $2,000 life benefit fully paid by the Employer.  

-260 An employee who retires under the definition in Paragraph 258 shall be paid for 
fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave, but not to exceed a maximum of fifty 
(50%) percent of twelve hundred (1200) hours, as of the effective date of separation.  

-261 An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in 
Paragraph 258 but has at least five (5) years, but less than ten (10) years of continuous 
service and has attained 65 years of age at the time of their separation shall be paid fifty 
(50%) percent of their unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation. An 
employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in Paragraph 258 
but has at least ten (10) years of continuous service and has attained 65 years of age at 
the time of their separation shall be paid one hundred (100%) percent of their unused 
sick leave as of the effective date of separation but not to exceed a maximum of one 
hundred (100) days, unless he/she has received a University contribution to TIAA-CREF 
and was employed after 1-1-73 in which case the employee shall be paid as in 
Paragraph 260.  

-262 Prorated longevity payments shall be made to those employees who retire under 
the definition of University Retirement in Paragraph 258 prior to October first of any 
year. This also applies to those employees not under the definition of University 
Retirement in Paragraph 258 but who are 65 years of age at the time of their 
separation. Such prorated payments as indicated above shall be based on the number 
of calendar months of full-time service credited to an employee from the preceding 
October first to the date of retirement or separation and shall be made as soon as 
practicable thereafter.  

ARTICLE 51 - EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE  

A. Qualifications  

-263 Full-time employees who meet the following provisions may apply for the 
Educational Assistance Program.  

a. Twelve (12) continuous FTE service months with the University are required.  

b. Admission as a student either in a degree program at Michigan State 
University, or in a degree program or job related course at Lansing Community 
College, M.S.U. Outreach Programs, or from those institutions accredited by 
generally recognized accrediting agencies and/or are listed in the Education 
Directory of the U.S. Department of Education. In addition, institutions approved 
under such government training programs as the G.I. Bill of Rights will also be 
recognized.  

c. The appropriate educational assistance application complete with 
departmental approval, must be submitted by employee requesting educational 
assistance. 

B. Non-Credit Courses  

a. Employees may apply for reimbursement and release time for non-credit 
courses.  

b. Only job-related courses which are offered through the University Outreach 
(e.g., Lifelong Education, Continuing Education and Evening College), MSU 
Computer Laboratory, Davenport College, Lansing Community College, High 
School Adult Education Programs, Human Resource Development Programs or 
other Staff Benefits Office approved Educational/Training programs are 
reimbursable.  

c. If non-credit courses only are being taken during an academic year, 
reimbursement will not exceed eight hundred ($800.00) dollars.  

d. If non-credit courses are being taken during the same academic years as 
course per Paragraph 263 above, the total reimbursement will not exceed the 
MSU rate per credit for fourteen (14) credit hours.  

e. Employees must document their successful completion of non-credit courses 
by submitting (1) a certificate for the course signed by the instructor, or (2) a 
form provided by Staff Benefits signed by the instructor. 

C. Release Time  

-264 When a course is not available during non-working hours, the employee may 
request release time with pay not to exceed five (5) hours per week to attend one 
course. The department administrator or designee shall determine whether unit 
functions will allow such release time to be granted. Such determination shall be within 
the sole discretion of the Employer.  

D. Tuition Reimbursement  

-265 Eligible employees shall be reimbursed for classes, not to exceed fourteen (14) 
credit hours per academic year and MSU registration fee under the following conditions:  

a. The employee has submitted the appropriate application to her/his supervisor 
at least ten (10) working days before the initial meeting of the course(s) for which 
they are seeking approval.  

b. The classes for which the employee is seeking tuition reimbursement may not 
exceed fourteen (14) total credit hours per academic year.  

c. The employee shall provide the Employer with evidence that they have 
successfully completed the approved course(s). A grade of 2.0 or better is 
required for credit course(s).  

d. If the employee is covered by benefits such as scholarship or fellowship aid, 
government aid, G.I. benefits, or similar assistance, reimbursement will be made 
only for that portion of the tuition fee which exceeds the amount of those 
benefits. 

E. Tuition Waiver  

-266 Except as specifically provided below all general provisions of educational 
assistance apply.  

a. Local 1585 Bargaining Unit members who are eligible for educational 
assistance shall be eligible for a tuition waiver program. This tuition waiver 
program will be applicable only to those MSU courses enrolled in through the 
University's standard registration procedure. As a condition of tuition waiver, an 
employee must sign an agreement authorizing payroll deduction for the amount 
of tuition waived to be used in the event he/she does not successfully complete 
the course(s).  

b. Employees interested in utilizing the tuition waiver program must submit their 
educational assistance application complete with departmental approval to the 

Benefits Office ten (10) working days prior to the beginning of early registration 
(except fall term, when it is regular registration). The application must be marked 
with a request for tuition waiver.  

c. If the above time lines are met and educational assistance application is 
approved, the Benefits Office will forward a list of employees eligible for tuition 
waiver to the Fees and Scholarship Office and to Local 1585.  

d. The Fees and Scholarship Office billing will reflect tuition waiver. Employees 
will be responsible for all charges in excess of the registration fee and in excess 
of fourteen (14) total credit hours per academic year. In the event the approved 
course(s) are unavailable at the time of registration, other appropriate course(s) 
may be substituted and the application amended subject to the approval of the 
department administrator or designee and the Benefits Office by telephone when 
necessary.  

e. Employees who have had their tuition waived authorize the Benefits Office to 
verify successful completion of approved courses at the end of the semester. In 
cases where tuition waivers are withdrawn (e.g., terminated employee, non-
approved course, unsuccessful completion), the University will attempt to payroll 
deduct the waived tuition. If the University is unable to make collection through 
payroll deduction, the Union agrees to be responsible for the outstanding 
debt(s). 

F. Course-Fee Courtesy  

-267 Full-time employees with sixty (60) FTE service months are eligible under the 
course-fee courtesy policy as it is provided to the faculty of the University.  

ARTICLE 52 - SUPERVISION WORKING  

-268 Supervisory employees shall not perform work in any job classification of a 
seniority unit except as outlined in Paragraph 269.  

-269 It is understood that supervisory employees may from time to time perform tasks 
normally assigned to bargaining unit employees. However, supervisors will not perform 
work which would deprive regular employees of overtime, cause regular employees to 
work any reduced hours, nor will they perform any bargaining unit work when regular 
employees are laid off in the individual unit where the work is being performed. The 
parties agree that the Union, Housing and Food Services and Employee Relations 
representatives will commit to act immediately to address concerns raised by the Union 
over administration of this section.  

ARTICLE 53 - STUDENT LABOR  

-270 It is the policy of the Employer to provide jobs for students to assist them in 
obtaining an education. It is the intent of the Employer to use student employees to 
supplement the regular work force and not displace it.  

-271 The University agrees to provide at or about mid-semester of each academic 
semester the following information concerning student employees:  

a. Name  

b. Seniority Unit  

c. Hours Worked 

ARTICLE 54 - SAFETY COMMITTEE  

-272 A Safety Committee of not more than ten (10) employees and the Employer's 
representatives shall be established. The Union will furnish the Employer the names of 
its members of the Safety Committee and such changes as may occur from time to time 
in such personnel. This Committee shall meet at least once a month during regular 
working hours for a period not to exceed two (2) hours for the purpose of making 
recommendations to the Employer. If the Safety Committee feels that an investigation 
should be made concerning a particular safety practice, rule or condition, then one 
Union member of the Safety Committee and a representative of the Employer of the 
Safety Committee will be designated to investigate the particular practice or rule and 
make proper recommendations to the Employer.  

-273 It shall be the intent of both parties to resolve safety concerns or grievances 
internally before contacting outside agencies. Employees are encouraged to first 
discuss safety concerns with supervision and/or departmental safety committees if 
established.  

-274 Any employee safety apparel or apparatus required by University rules, or State 
laws, will be paid for by the University.  

ARTICLE 55 - AGREEMENT COPIES  

-275 At least three (3) official (proof) copies of the contract shall be signed by 
appropriate representatives of the Employer and Union and shall be distributed among 
Employer, Union and printer.  

-276 The Employer shall provide the Union with up to 1,500 "small-book" copies of the 
contract including current changes within ninety (90) days of ratification and final proof 
reading by the Union.  

ARTICLE 56 - SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS  

-277 All supplemental agreements shall be subject to the approval of the Employer and 
the Union.  

ARTICLE 57 - MAINTENANCE OF CONDITIONS  

-278 It is not the intent of the University to introduce for the first time in its history, mass 
layoffs or reductions of hours. If, due to conditions beyond the control of the University, 
it becomes necessary to reduce an Employee's working hours, the University agrees to 
meet with the Union in order to affect a mutually agreeable settlement. If no agreement 
can be reached at that meeting, the proposed reduction can then be implemented and 
the dispute may then be arbitrated on the basis of the questions put before the arbitrator 
by both sides.  

-279 The University agrees to continue an Employee Assistance Program for the Union. 
The Union shall maintain a representative on the committee set up to advise the Office 
of Employee Assistance.  

-280 The University shall furnish all employees with appropriate uniforms including 
laundry services. Employees shall wear uniforms furnished by the Employer unless 
otherwise mutually agreed.  

-281 The University agrees to provide the Union with a campus restricted Centrex line 
which shall be paid for by the University.  

ARTICLE 58 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS  

-282 The proceeding agreements apply only to the departments or divisions indicated, 
and establish no precedent for seniority units not specifically mentioned.  

I. COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES  

-283 Assignment of Employees - Employees in the College of Agriculture and Natural 
Resources may be assigned to other tasks during certain times without an increase or 
decrease in their regular rate of pay as opposed to being laid off because of lack of 
available work in the specific classification. It is understood that the above provision 
does not guarantee twelve (12) months employment each year to any employee but is 

merely a sincere effort on the part of the Employer to utilize the talents and services of 
regular full-time employees during normally slow periods.  

-284 The Employer will provide jobs for students to the end that impecunious 
youngsters may secure an education. Many students are employed in order to receive 
practical training as a part of their education. Therefore, the employer's current policy 
with respect to the employment and assignment of students in the College of Agriculture 
and Natural Resources will be continued.  

-285 The University's current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of 
academic personnel, graduate students and students on research projects in the 
College of Agriculture and Natural Resources will be continued and the foremen and 
supervisory employees in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources may spend 
up to thirty (30%) of their time performing work outside of their supervisory duties in 
work related to research and special assignments in the bargaining unit.  

-286 Additionally, it is understood that, in emergency situations when regular employees 
are not immediately available, supervisory employees in the College of Agriculture and 
Natural Resources may be required to perform work within specific job classifications. 
The same thing is true when operational difficulties are encountered or in the testing of 
materials. Likewise, instruction or training of employees may well include demonstrating 
proper methods of accomplishing the tasks assigned and no dispute over the policy 
stated above shall be occasioned by such demonstration.  

-287 The Employer's current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of 
personnel to the cooperative training program in the Creamery of the College of 
Agriculture and Natural Resources will be continued.  

II. GROUNDS MAINTENANCE  

A. Tree Trimmer Trainee  

-288 In the event that a Tree Trimmer position is vacated a Tree Trimmer Trainee 
position shall be posted and filled.  

-289 The Tree Trimmer Trainee shall remain in this classification for a period not to 
exceed one year in order to be properly trained as a Tree Trimmer and then shall be 
promoted to Tree Trimmer, salary grade XVIII. The trainee position shall remain vacant 
until another Tree Trimmer position is vacated.  

-290 While it is the intent in the foreseeable future to maintain the existing Tree 
Trimming work force, this agreement does not preclude the Grounds Department from 
adjusting the Tree Trimming work force as operational needs dictate.  

B. Grounds Equipment Maintainer II Mechanic and Maintainer Grounds Equipment III  

-291 The Maintainer Grounds Equipment I will be promoted to the Maintainer Grounds 
Equipment II upon completion of two (2) years of satisfactory experience as a 
Maintainer Grounds Equipment I, if the employee meets the minimum qualification 
requirements of the current Maintainer Grounds Equipment II classification.  

-292 A Maintainer Grounds Equipment II will be promoted to the Maintainer Grounds 
Equipment III classification upon completion of a year of satisfactory experience as a 
Maintainer Grounds Equipment II if the employee meets the minimum qualification 
requirements of the current Maintainer Grounds Equipment III classification.  

-293 Employees classified as Maintainer Grounds Equipment I and II will be allowed 
release time to take the State of Michigan Certification test for engine repair, electrical 
systems and manual transmission. The department will pay the fee required for such 
tests, upon successful completion of such tests.  

-294 While it is the intent in the foreseeable future to maintain the existing Maintainer 
Grounds Equipment work force, this Agreement does not preclude the Grounds 
Department from adjusting the Maintainer Grounds Equipment work force as operational 
needs dictate.  

C. Eye and Toe Protection  

-295 The following provisions apply to those employees in the Grounds Department 
who are required to wear eye protection and toe protection:  

a. Employees who wear prescription glasses will be given an allowance of 
$25.00 for the purchase of safety prescription glasses.  

b. Employees who are required to wear toe protection will be given an allowance 
of $25.00 toward the purchase of safety shoes.  

c. The above allowances shall not be given more than once a fiscal year and 
only upon suitable proof of purchase.  

d. The University will seek, through its purchasing process, vendors who will 
provide the lowest price on the above items. The employee may purchase the 

above items anywhere so long as the items meet the minimum requirements 
under the applicable law. 

III. HOUSING AND FOODS SERVICES, PHYSICAL PLANT AND INTERCOLLEGIATE 
ATHLETICS  

A. Assignment of Employees  

-296 Employees in the Housing and Food Services, Physical Plant and Intercollegiate 
Athletics may be assigned to other tasks during certain times without an increase or 
decrease in their regular rate of pay as opposed to being laid off because of lack of 
available work in their specific classifications.  

-297 The Employer will furnish the Union with a list of the employees who are being 
assigned to other tasks rather than laid off. This list shall be sent to the Union office 
prior to any reassignment under this section.  

-298 It is understood that the above provision does not guarantee twelve months 
employment each year to any employee but is merely a sincere effort on the part of the 
Employer to utilize the talents and services of regular full-time employees during 
normally slow periods.  

B. Kitchen Sanitation Worker  

-299 Half-time employees (the equivalent of one full-time employee) shall be hired as 
Kitchen Sanitation Workers (Level VII) in the following units: Akers, Holden, Holmes, 
Hubbard, Mason-Abbot, McDonel, Owen, Snyder-Phillips, Wilson and Wonders. The 
University agrees to post and fill these part-time positions by the end of fall term, 1978.  

-300 As full-time KSW positions are vacated, they may be replaced with full or half-time 
employees equivalent to the full-time position regardless of the previous number of full-
time KSW's in a particular unit as long as a dishwashing (and/or a pot and pan cleaning) 
operation is necessary in the unit. Schedules may be rearranged to accommodate part-
time employees.  

-301 The Division of Housing and Food Services shall continue to supplement the 
regular work force with student employees as management deems appropriate in 
accordance with the contract.  

-302 This provision does not in any way effect any other classifications nor does it 
constitute the relinquishment of management's right to schedule, direct the work force or 
to eliminate a classification.  

C. Schedule of Employees to Work Designated Holidays  

-303 This provision applies to work to be performed by two or more 1585 members in a 
district on designated holidays:  

a. For purposes of scheduling employees, overtime equalization lists shall be 
utilized in accordance with Article 43.  

b. The District Steward shall be scheduled to work on a designated holiday if 
he/she - has previously occupied or - is currently in or- has previously performed 
on a regular basis the classification and/or duties to be performed on that day.  

c. If the District Steward is not scheduled as above, the Alternate Steward shall 
be scheduled in conformance with above.  

d. District Stewards and Alternate Stewards who work on a holiday shall have 
their holiday pay calculated on their regular rate of pay for their normal University 
classification.  

e. If employees, including the District Steward or Alternate Steward in a 
classification scheduled to work, decline to work, they shall be charged on the 
equalization lists and management may assign and schedule employees in order 
of lowest seniority within the classification scheduled to work on that designated 
holiday.  

f. This provision shall not alter Section D of the Housing and Foods article. 

D. Cook Classification  

-304 Effective January 1, 1978:  

a. The Cook-Level IX description shall be implemented by this date.  

b. All Cook I's Level IV shall become Cooks-Level IX. All remaining Cook II's-
Level XI shall become Cooks-Level IX and red-circled at salary Level XI.  

c. Employees currently classified as Cook I in Mayo and Campbell Halls will 
remain at Level IV, red-circled, and be reclassified as FSW, Senior.  

d. Cook, Senior will remain unchanged at Level XVI.  

e. A Cook will be assigned to replace a Cook, Senior who is absent for an entire 
(8) hour period and shall receive the probationary rate of Cook, Senior according 

to Paragraph 181. If more than one Cook is present, the temporary promotion 
shall be made on a rotating basis. The Union and management recognize the 
temporarily promoted Cook must be willing and able to assume Cook Senior 
duties. 

-305 This Agreement applies only to the Cook sequence in the Division of Housing and 
Food Services excluding Kellogg Center.  

a. All Level 09 Cooks, who have successfully completed a two-year probationary 
period shall, upon completion, automatically proceed to a Cook II, Level 12 
position. 

E. Assignment of Meat Cutters and Stockhandlers to the Freezer Room  

-306 It is agreed that assignment to the freezer room is less desirable than other 
assignments in Food Stores. Therefore, employees will be assigned to the freezer room 
on a seniority preference basis, and shall be compensated at an additional fifty (50) 
cents per hour during the period of the regular assignment to the freezer room. 
Employees, who, during the course of their regular duties are compelled to occasionally 
enter the freezer room and are not obliged to spend over one (1) hour consecutively in 
the freezer room, shall not be eligible for the additional compensation. If a sufficient 
number of employees do not opt for the freezer room assignment, the least senior 
employees shall be assigned.  

F. Baker (Central Bake Shop)  

-307 If an employee is assigned or caused to be transferred to the position from a 
higher pay rate than grade XIV maximum, the employee's pay rate shall be red circled 
and his/her classification shall be retained for whatever future benefits he/she may 
derive therefrom.  

IV. INSTRUCTIONAL MEDIA CENTER  

-308 Motor Vehicle Operators - the pick-up and delivery of equipment will be performed 
by 1585 personnel, however, it is jointly recognized that in some situations it may not be 
possible for only Motor Vehicle Operators to pick up and deliver audio visual equipment 
as in cases where:  

a. The security of equipment, on or off campus, is jeopardized.  

b. Professional and technical staff are needed to determine equipment needs on 
the program site and the IMC vans are used as a mobile center.  

c. An emergency occurs, such as equipment failure, absence of personnel, last 
minute deadlines, and other circumstances beyond the control of the 
dispatchers.  

d. Off-campus programs which require the transportation of an authorized 
operator as well as equipment when prior delivery is not possible, and when 
overtime has been offered and refused by bargaining unit employees.  

e. During slow periods, Motor Vehicle Operators will be reassigned other duties 
in order to provide work.  

f. All programs involving Central Administration (Presidents and Vice 
Presidents). 

V. CUSTODIAL SERVICES  

A. Grievance/Disciplinary  

-309 Meetings involving the District Supervisor for Third Shift employees shall normally 
be scheduled at 4:30 p.m. on Fridays unless mutually agreed otherwise.  

-310 For Custodial Services employees scheduled Sunday through Thursday, the 
District Supervisor or his/her designee shall hold meetings requiring a District Steward 
during the employee's normal working hours unless mutually agreed otherwise. These 
meetings shall occur not more than once a week.  

B. Equalization of Overtime  

-311 On July first of each year, the number of overtime hours credited to each employee 
in the custodial department will be reduced to zero.  

a. Overtime for classifications other than Custodians (Set Up Worker, Building 
Services Custodian, Swimming Pool Operator-Custodian, and Stockroom 
personnel) shall be offered first to the employees within the classification needed 
and second to all employees within the three (3) Physical Plant Custodial 
Districts. In both first and second situations overtime shall be offered to 
employees with lowest overtime hours first and so on down the list (the present 
practice of posting available overtime will be continued). 

-312 An employee who changes classifications within the custodial series (Custodian II, 
III, and IV) shall retain the number of overtime hours which the employee held before 
the date of change.  

-313 Custodial overtime within a building will be offered first to the head custodian 
normally assigned to the building where the overtime is available; and second to all 
other custodial employees normally assigned to the building; and then to all other 
custodial employees. In the second and third situations, overtime should be offered to 
employees with the lowest overtime hours first and so on down the list.  

-314 When the Employer combines buildings for the purpose of custodial overtime, the 
overtime shall be offered first to the building heads in the buildings being combined 
based on the lowest overtime hours worked, until a building head accepts the overtime 
or all refuse it, after which it shall be offered to those employees regularly assigned to 
those buildings being combined based on the lowest overtime hours worked within the 
classification needed.  

C. Automotive Services  

-315 It is agreed that Automotive Services, Physical Plant Division, will continue their 
long-standing policy relating to split runs on the Campus Bus System. Included in this 
policy are the following:  

a. Split runs will be minimized as much as possible.  

b. All new employees shall read the job description and be aware they may have 
to operate a split run.  

c. The Bus Drivers may suggest alternate solutions to eliminate any or all split 
runs. These solutions will be considered and adopted if they:  

- Do not increase operating costs.  
- Do not eliminate needed service. 

D. Bus Department Bidding Procedure  

-316 Before the start of each Michigan State University school semester, Bus Drivers 
will choose their bus runs by seniority within the Bus Department with the first choice 
going to the highest seniority driver and so on down the seniority list. Hereafter, the 
"start of the semester" shall be defined as the first day of each school semester that 
buses commence operation with that semester's schedule.  

-317 After the start of the semester but before two-thirds of the semester has been 
completed, if a new bus run is established, all Bus Drivers will rebid runs by seniority as 
stated in Paragraph 316.  

-318 After the start of the semester but prior to the completion of two-thirds of that 
semester, if a Bus Driver is not able to continue his/her run and is not expected to be 
able to return to that run for the remainder of that semester, all drivers from that driver's 
position on the seniority list and on down will rebid the bus run chosen by said driver 
and all other drivers with less seniority. All bidding will be based on first choice to the 
highest seniority Bus Department driver.  

-319 After the start of the semester, if a Bus Driver is unable to continue his/her run for 
an unspecified period of time, but he/she is expected to return prior to the end of the 
semester, drivers from the extra board will be offered the run in the order of highest Bus 
Department seniority.  

-320 After the start of a semester, if a Bus Driver who has not chosen a run returns to 
work in the Bus Department, the runs chosen by drivers with less seniority than the 
returning driver will be re-bid by the returning driver and all drivers with less seniority. All 
re-bidding will be based upon first choice to the highest seniority Bus Department driver.  

-321 During the last one-third of a semester, if a new run is established, it will be filled 
by a driver from the extra board with first choice given to highest seniority employee 
assigned to the extra board and so on down the list. If the new route necessitates hiring 
an additional employee, and the more senior extra board employees decline the new 
run, the new employee will be assigned to that route.  

-322 During the last one-third of the semester, if a new employee is hired he/she will be 
assigned to the extra board for the remainder of the semester, unless the more senior 
employees already assigned to the extra board decline any other options which might 
be available to them.  

-323 Whenever re-bidding is necessary, all driver assignments will remain the same as 
originally established until the completion of the re-bidding process.  

VI. UNIVERSITY SERVICES  

A. General Stores and Campus Mail Service  

-324 A classification of Materials Handler will apply to all present 1585 employees and 
to all employees hired hereafter in the departments of General Stores and Campus Mail 
Service.  

-325 Those employees presently classified as Group Leaders will be red-circled at their 
present rate and the Group Leader classification will be replaced by Materials Handler.  

-326 Those 1585 positions designated by management as having substantial leadership 
responsibilities will be classified as Material Handler Leaders, Grade Level XVIII.  

-327 General Stores management will develop and implement a training program, 
successful completion of which will move employees from Grade XIII to the top of Grade 
XV in thirty (30) months.  

-328 New employees will automatically enter the training program and will receive step 
increases each six (6) months providing they have successfully completed that portion 
of the training to which they are assigned. New employees will be assumed to be in a 
training program at all times during the first thirty (30) months of employment.  

-329 The amount of the step increase will be determined by dividing the difference 
between the start of Grade XIII and the top of Grade XV by five. If there is a remainder 
to the quotient, it will apply to the last increase.  

B. University Printing  

-330 The classification Print Shop Trainee will apply to all new 1585 employees without 
previous printing experience hired in the Print Shop bindery.  

-331 Printing management will develop and implement a training program, successful 
completion of which will move employees from Grade Level VI to the top of Grade Level 
IX in twenty-four (24) months.  

-332 New bindery employees will automatically enter the training program and will 
receive step increases each six (6) months providing they have successfully completed 
the portion of training to which they have been assigned.  

-333 New employees will be assumed to be in a training program at all times during the 
first twenty-four (24) months of employment. Unsuccessful completion of any aspect of 
the training program will result in layoff for a new employee or return to a former 
classification for a Seniority employee.  

-334 The amount of the step increase will be determined by dividing the difference 
between the start of Grade Level VI and the top of Grade Level IX by four. If there is a 
remainder to the quotient, it will apply to the last increase.  

VII. VETERINARY MEDICINE  

A. Work Schedule  

-335 There shall not be any change in the work schedule without agreement between 
Employer and employee.  

-336 Any change in the work shift shall be discussed seven (7) days prior to change 
except in an emergency.  

-337 Any time worked not included in the regular work schedule shall be considered 
overtime.  

VIII. OVERTIME EQUALIZATION -- ULAR  

-338 Overtime hours shall be divided as equally as practicable among employees in 
specific work locations. An up-to-date list showing overtime hours and unit seniority 
date, by specific work location, will be posted in prominent places within the seniority 
unit by the 15th day of each month. A copy shall also be provided to the steward of the 
district.  

-339 Whenever overtime is required within a specific work location, the overtime shall 
be offered first to employees normally assigned to that group on a rotating basis. After 
exhausting this procedure and the need still exists, the Employer shall offer the overtime 
to employees normally assigned to other specific work locations, regardless of 
classification. In such cases, they would be called on the basis of least hours of 
overtime within the seniority unit.  

-340 For the purpose of this agreement, time not worked because the employee was 
unavailable or did not choose to work, will be charged the average number of overtime 
hours of the employees working during that overtime period.  

-341 On July 1 each year, the amount of overtime hours credited to each employee 
within the seniority unit will be reduced to a zero base.  

-342 The Employer will make a reasonable effort to maintain hours between specific 
work locations equal, with a maximum variance between locations not to exceed 100 
hours. If in the event equalized hours of one group exceed that of another location by 
greater than 100 hours, overtime shall be offered to employees in the lower group, until 
such time as the groups are once again equalized. At that time, provisions of Paragraph 
339 would be applicable.  

-343 Weekend overtime shall be offered in increments of not less than 3 hours, except 
in necessary emergencies.  

-344 For purposes of this Agreement, specific work location and employee groups shall 
be defined as regular 1585 employees normally assigned to locations in ULAR. The 
present ULAR locations are:  

a. Veterinary Research Farm/Incinerator  

b. Giltner Hall  

c. Psychology Research Building/FeeHall/Veterinary Clinic/Olds Hall  

d. Life Sciences Building/M.S.U. Clinical Center 

ARTICLE 59 - SAVINGS CLAUSE  

-345 If during the life of this Agreement any of the provisions contained herein are held 
to be invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction or if 
compliance with or enforcement of any provisions should be restrained by such tribunal 
pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement shall not 
be affected thereby. In the event any provision herein contained is so rendered invalid, 
upon written request of either party hereto, the Employer and the Union shall 
immediately enter into collective bargaining for the purpose of negotiating a mutually 
satisfactory replacement for such provision.  

ARTICLE 60 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS  

-346 The provisions herein contained constitute the entire Agreement between the 
parties.  

ARTICLE 61 - RATIFICATION  

-347 The Union agrees to submit this Agreement to the employees of the seniority units 
covered by this Agreement for ratification by them on or before October 20, 1999, and 
the local Union will recommend to the employees that it be ratified.  

ARTICLE 62 - MODIFICATION  

-348 This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from the date hereof until 
11:59 p.m., July 31, 2002, and from year to year thereafter, unless notice of modification 
is given as provided in paragraphs 351, 352.  

-349 This Agreement shall be effective from and after August 1, 1999, until and 
including July 31, 2002.  

-350 If either party desires to modify or change this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days 
prior to the expiration date or any subsequent expiration date, give written notice of 
amendment, in which event the notice of amendment shall set forth the nature of the 
amendment or amendments desired. Any amendments that may be agreed upon shall 
become and be a part of this Agreement without modifying or changing any of the other 
terms of this Agreement. The Employer agrees to continue all contractual rights and 
benefits past the expiration date of this contract until a new contract takes effect as long 
as there is no strike by the Union. There shall be no lockout by the Employer.  

-351 Notice of modification - Notice shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by 
certified mail addressed, if to the Union, to the Local 1585 President and if to the 
Employer, addressed to the Director Employee Relations, or to any such address as the 
Union or the Employer may make available to each other.  

ARTICLE 63 - EFFECTIVE DATE  

-352 This agreement shall become effective as of August 1, 1999. IN WITNESS 
WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS:  

Date Signed - October 21, 1999  
   
   

EMPLOYER 

Fred L. Poston   
Interim VP for Fin & Oper & Treas 
C. Keith Groty   
Asst VP Human Resources 
Samuel A. Baker   
Director, Employee Relations  
Thomas A. Dutch   
Personnel Admin Hous & Food Servs 
Gary M. Glazier   
Assoc Mnger Vice Prv/Dean ANR 
Karen A. Griggs   
Assoc Dir University Housing 
Stanley Hecker   
Personnel Admin Phys Plant 
Melvin D. Latnie   
Mnger Custodial Servs 
John L. Lewis   

UNION 
James Rhodes   
President 
Violet Hickey   
Vice President 
Lou Sutfin   
Sec/Treasurer 
James S. Bale   
Recording Secretary 
John Fenby   
Chief Steward 
Joel Gutzki   
AFSCME Council 25 
Larry Bouck   
Negotiating Team 
Kathy Lezovich   
Negotiating Team 
James Planck   

Director University Services 
Jennifer J. McManus   
Pers Asst Admr/S Grounds Maintenance 

 

APPENDIX I  

LOCAL 1585 AFSCME  

Negotiating Team 
James Rhodes, Jr.   
Negotiating Team 
David Robison   
Negotiating Team 

CLASSIFICATION AND LEVEL SCHEDULE  
   

CLASSIFICATION 

LEVEL 

Agricultural & Special Equipment Operator I 
Agricultural & Special Equipment Operator II 
Agricultural Group Leader 
Agricultural Research Aide 
Animal Attendant 
Animal Caretaker I 
Animal Caretaker II 
Animal Caretaker III/Repair 
Animal Caretaker III/Treadmill 
Animal Caretaker IV 
Animal Caretaker Research I 
Animal Caretaker Research II 
Athletic Equipment Worker 
Baker/Central Bake Shop 
Baker/Central Bake Shop Trainee 
Baker/Pastry Chef 
Baker/Pastry Chef Assistant I 
Baker/Pastry Chef Assistant II 
Banquet Setup Worker/Kellogg Center 
Building Sanitation Worker 
Building Security Worker 
Building Services Custodian 
Building Services Group Leader 

XVI 
XIX 
XX 
SVIII 
VI 
IX 
XIV 
XV 
XV 
XVII 
XV 
XVIII 
XIX 
XIV 
IX 
XIX 
XV 
XVII 
XII 
VIII 
XII 
XIV 
XV 

Building Services Worker 
Building Services Worker/Kellogg Center 
Central Sterilization Worker 
Central Sterilization Worker Group Leader 
Cook I 
Cook II 
Cook III 
Cook, Cowles House 
Cook, Kellogg Center 
Cook, Range/Kellogg Center 
Cook, Vegetable/Kellogg Center 
Costume Maker 
Cowles House Services Assistant  
Custodian I 
Custodian II 
Custodian III 
Custodian IV 
Dairy Processing Worker 
Dining Room Worker 
Drapery Maker I 
Drapery Maker II 
Driver, Bus 
Driver/Buyer Assistant Cyclotron 
Driver/Buyer Produce 
Feed Mill Operator 
Food Processing Worker I 
Food Processing Worker II 
Food Service Cashier/Attendant 
Food Service Worker Aide 
Food Service Worker I 
Food Service Worker II 
Gardener I 
Gardener II 
Greenskeeper I 
Greenskeeper II 

II 
VII 
XI 
XIV 
IX 
XII 
XVI 
XV 
XVIII 
VII 
XIII 
VII 
XIV 
II 
X 
XII 
XV 
XVI 
IA 
V 
X 
XIII 
XV 
XXI 
XIX 
IV 
VI 
IC 
IB 
II 
IV 
XII 
XVI 
XII 
XVI 

Grounds/Site Construction Group Leader 
Grounds Utility Worker 
Groundskeeper I 
Groundskeeper II 
Gym Store Attendant 
Herder I 
Herder II 
Horticulture Aid 
Host/Kellogg Center 
Incinerator Worker 
Intramural Supply Attendant 
Kitchen Sanitation Worker I 
Kitchen Sanitation Worker II 
Laboratory Preparation Aide 
Laboratory Sanitation Worker 
Laboratory Preparation Aide 
Laboratory Sanitation Worker 
Latoratory Worker 
Laborer Agricultural I 
Laborer Agricultural II 
Laborer General 
Laborer I 
Laborer II 
Laborer III 
Laundry Control Checker 
Laundry Equipment Maintainer 
Laundry Helper 
Laundry Worker I 
Laundry Worker II 
Lodal & Huge Haul Operator 
Mail Carrier 
Maintainer Bowling Alley Equipment 
Maintainer Custodial Equipment  
Maintainer Fire Extinguisher Equipment 
Maintainer Food Equipment I 

XX 
XVIII 
XII 
XVI 
X 
XVI 
XIX 
XIV 
II 
XVI 
XIII 
VII 
VIII 
VII 
XV 
VII 
XV 
VI 
IX 
XII 
IX 
VI 
IX 
XII 
IV 
XXII 
II 
VI 
XI 
XVI 
X 
XVII 
XVIII 
XIX 
XIX 

Maintainer Food Equipment II 
Maintainer Grounds Equipment I 
Maintainer Grounds Equipment II 
Maintainer Grounds Equipment III 
Maintainer Heating Equipment 
Maintainer Irrigation Systems 
Maintainer Munn Arena 
Maintainer Parking Meter Equipment 
Maintenance Worker Agricultural I 
Maintenance Worker Agricultural II 
Maintenance Worker I 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker III 
Maintenance Worker ULAR 
Maintenance Worker Veterinary  
Material and Logistics Worker I 
Material and Logistics Worker II 
Material Handler 
Material Handler Group Leader 
Material Handler Trainee 
Meat Cutter I 
Meat Cutter II 
Meat Cutter III 
Motor Vehicle Operator 
Pest Control Worker 
Recycling/Salvage Worker I 
Recycling/Salvage Worker II 
Set-up Worker I 
Set-up Worker II 
Sexton 
Snackshop/Concession Attendant 
Stockhandler I 
Stockhandler II 
Stockhandler III 
Stockhandler Cyclotron Laboratory 

XXII 
XVI 
XX 
XXII 
XX 
XX 
XVII 
XIX 
XIV 
XVI 
XII 
XVI 
XIX 
XIX 
XVII 
XV 
XIX 
XV 
XVIII 
XIII 
XV 
XVII 
XVIII 
XII 
XX 
VI 
X 
XVI 
XIX 
XIV 
VII 
XII 
XVI 
XVIII 
XIX 

Stockhandler Scientific Supplies I 
Stockhandler Scientific Supplies II 
Stockroom Attendant I 
Stockroom Attendant II 
Swimming Pool Operator-Custodian I 
Swimming Pool Operator-Custodian II 
Telephone Operator 
Tree Trimmer I 
Tree Trimmer II 
Tree Trimmer Trainee 
Warehouse Attendant 

APPENDIX II 

XV 
XVIII 
XV 
XVIII 
XIV 
XIX 
X 
XVIII 
XIX 
XIV 
XVI 

Wage rate schedule effective August 1, 1999, for those employees included in the 
seniority units clause of this agreement.*  
   

LEVEL 

PROBATIONARY 

JOB RATE 

IA 
IB 
II 
III 
IV 
V 
VI 
VII 
VIII 
IX 
X 
XI 
XII 
XIII 
XIV 
XV 
XVI 
XVII 

$  7.01 
$  8.18 
$10.93 
$11.13 
$11.49 
$11.69 
$11.95 
$12.05 
$12.37 
$12.45 
$12.78 
$13.09 
$13.43 
$13.58 
$13.72 
$13.39 
$13.72 
$13.98 

$  8.01 
$  8.61 
$11.51 
$11.72 
$12.09 
$12.30 
$12.58 
$12.68 
$13.02 
$13.10 
$13.45 
$13.78 
$14.14 
$14.29 
$14.44 
$14.88 
$15.24 
$15.53 

XVIII 
XIX 
XX 
XXI 
XXII 
XIIII 

$14.30 
$14.73 
$15.17 
$15.30 
$15.89 
$16.00 

*Except as specified in Appendix V  

$15.89 
$16.37 
$16.85 
$17.00 
$17.66 
$17.78 

APPENDIX III 

Wage rate schedule effective August 1, 2000, for those employees included in the 
seniority units clause of this agreement.*  
   

LEVEL 

PROBATIONARY 

JOB RATE 

IA 
IB 
II 
III 
IV 
V 
VI 
VII 
VIII 
IX 
X 
XI 
XII 
XIII 
XIV 
XV 
XVI 
XVII 
XVIII 
XIX 

$  7.25 
$  8.43 
$11.27 
$11.47 
$11.83 
$12.04 
$12.31 
$12.41 
$12.74 
$12.82 
$13.16 
$13.48 
$13.83 
$13.98 
$14.13 
$13.80 
$14.13 
$14.40 
$14.73 
$15.17 

$  8.25 
$  8.87 
$11.86 
$12.07 
$12.45 
$12.67 
$12.96 
$13.06 
$13.41 
$13.49 
$13.85 
$14.19 
$14.56 
$14.72 
$14.87 
$15.33 
$15.70 
$16.00 
$16.37 
$16.86 

XX 
XXI 
XXII 
XIIII 

$15.62 
$15.76 
$16.37 
$16.48 

$17.36 
$17.51 
$18.19 
$18.31 

*Except as specified in Appendix VI.  

APPENDIX IV 

Wage rate schedule effective August 1, 2001, for those employees included in the 
seniority units clause of this agreement.*  
   

LEVEL 

PROBATIONARY 

JOB RATE 

IA 
IB 
II 
III 
IV 
V 
VI 
VII 
VIII 
IX 
X 
XI 
XII 
XIII 
XIV 
XV 
XVI 
XVII 
XVIII 
XIX 
XX 
XXI 

$  7.33 
$  8.51 
$11.38 
$11.58 
$11.94 
$12.16 
$12.44 
$12.53 
$12.86 
$12.94 
$13.29 
$13.61 
$13.97 
$14.13 
$14.27 
$13.93 
$14.27 
$14.54 
$14.88 
$15.33 
$15.78 
$15.92 

$  8.33 
$  8.96 
$11.98 
$12.19 
$12.57 
$12.80 
$13.09 
$13.19 
$13.54 
$13.62 
$13.99 
$14.33 
$14.71 
$14.87 
$15.02 
$15.48 
$15.86 
$16.16 
$16.53 
$17.03 
$17.53 
$17.69 

XXII 
XIIII 

$16.53 
$16.64 

$18.37 
$18.49 

*Except as specified in Appendix VII.  

APPENDIX V 

Specific Classification - Wage Rate Schedule Effective August 1, 1999, for those 
employees included in the seniority units clause of this agreement.  

Dining Room Worker (Level IA)  
Start - $7.01  
6 months - $7.51  
12 months - $8.01  

Food Service Worker Aide (Level IB)  
Start - $8.18  
6 months - $8.39  
12 months - $8.61  

Food Service Cashier/Attendant (Level IC)  
Start - $8.61  
6 months - $9.11  
12 months - $9.61  

Building Service Worker (Level II)  
Start - $10.51  
6 months - $11.01  
12 months - $11.51  

Food Service Worker I (Level II)  
Start - $10.51  
6 months - $11.01  
12 months - $11.51  

Laundry Helper (Level II)  
Start - $10.51  
6 months - $11.01  
12 months - $11.51  

Snack Shop Attendant (Level VII)  
Start - $11.68  

6 months - $12.18  
12 months - $12.68  

Kitchen Sanitation Worker I (Level VII)  
Start - $11.68  
6 months - $12.18  
12 months - $12.68  

Animal Caretaker II (Level XIV)  
Start - $13.44  
6 months - $13.94  
12 months - $14.44  

Animal Caretaker III (Level XV)  
Start - $13.88  
6 months - $14.38  
12 months - $14.88  

Animal Caretaker IV (Level XVII)  
Start - $14.53  
6 months - $15.03  
12 months - $15.53  

APPENDIX VI 

Specific Classification - Wage Rate Schedule Effective August 1, 2000, for those 
employees included in the seniority units clause of this agreement.  

Dining Room Worker (Level IA)  
Start - $7.25  
6 months - $7.75  
12 months - $8.25  

Food Service Worker Aide (Level IB)  
Start - $8.43  
6 months - $8.65  
12 months - $8.87  

Food Service Cashier/Attendant (Level IC)  
Start - $8.90  
6 months - $9.40  
12 months - $9.90  

Building Service Worker (Level II)  
Start - $10.86  
6 months - $11.36  
12 months - $11.86  

Food Service Worker I (Level II)  
Start - $10.86  
6 months - $11.36  
12 months - $11.86  

Laundry Helper (Level II)  
Start - $10.86  
6 months - $11.36  
12 months - $11.86  

Snack Shop Attendant (Level VII)  
Start - $12.06  
6 months - $12.56  
12 months - $13.06  

Kitchen Sanitation Worker I (Level VII)  
Start - $12.06  
6 months - $12.56  
12 months - $13.06  

Animal Caretaker II (Level XIV)  
Start - $13.87  
6 months - $14.37  
12 months - $14.87  

Animal Caretaker III (Level XV)  
Start - $14.33  
6 months - $14.83  
12 months - $15.33  

Animal Caretaker IV (Level XVII)  
Start - $15.00  
6 months - $15.50  
12 months - $16.00  

APPENDIX VII 

Specific Classification - Wage Rate Schedule Effective August 1, 2001, for those 
employees included in the seniority units clause of this agreement.  

Dining Room Worker (Level IA)  
Start - $7.33  
6 months - $7.83  
12 months - $8.33  

Food Service Worker Aide (Level IB)  
Start - $8.51  
6 months - $8.73  
12 months - $8.96  

Food Service Cashier/Attendant (Level IC)  
Start - $9.00  
6 months - $9.50  
12 months - $10.00  

Building Service Worker (Level II)  
Start - $10.98  
6 months - $11.48  
12 months - $11.98  

Food Service Worker I (Level II)  
Start - $10.98  
6 months - $11.48  
12 months - $11.98  

Laundry Helper (Level II)  
Start - $10.98  
6 months - $11.48  
12 months - $11.98  

Snack Shop Attendant (Level VII)  
Start - $12.19  
6 months - $12.69  
12 months - $13.19  

Kitchen Sanitation Worker I (Level VII)  
Start - $12.19  
6 months - $12.69  
12 months - $13.19  

Animal Caretaker II (Level XIV)  
Start - $14.02  
6 months - $14.52  
12 months - $15.02  

Animal Caretaker III (Level XV)  
Start - $14.48  
6 months - $14.98  
12 months - $15.48  

Animal Caretaker IV (Level XVII)  
Start - $15.16  
6 months - $15.66  
12 months - $16.16  

APPENDIX VIII  
DEFINITIONS 

Agreement - Whenever the word "Agreement" is used in this document, it shall be 
considered synonymous with the word "Contract".  

Demotion - Demotion shall be considered the movement of an employee to a lower 
grade level.  

Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) Service Months  

A. Full-time equivalent (FTE) service months is defined as the cumulative full-
time equivalent (FTE) months of service for University employment of 50.0% or 
greater. FTE service months will be used in determining eligibility for University 
benefits which require a service waiting period.  

B. FTE service months will be credited each month as follows:  
   

a) 1.00 credit per month for full-time (90% - 100%) employees  

b) .75 credit per month for 3/4 time (65% - 89.9%) employees  

c) .50 credit per month for 1/2 time (50% - 64.9%) employees 

C. For new hires, terminations, percent of employment changes, etc., FTE 
service months will be credited based on an employee's status as of the 15th of 
the month. 

D. Employees on paid and unpaid leaves of absence or layoff will continue to 
accrue FTE service months based on their percent of employment immediately 
prior to the leave/layoff.  

E. Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible 
to maintain group health and dental coverage and receive the Employer's 
proportional contribution.  

F. If an employee retires with 15 years of service and at least age 62, use the 
following FTE Service Months ranges to determine the employer's health and 
dental contribution during retirement.  

15 yrs 180 mos - 

                              1/2 time (50%-64.9%): 90.00-116.99 FTE Service Months  
                              3/4 time (65%-89.9%): 117.00-161.99 FTE Service Months  
                              Full-time (90%-100%): 162.00-999.99 FTE Service Months  

If an employee retires with 25 years of service at any age, use the following FTE 
Service Month ranges.  
15 yrs 180 mos - 

                              1/2 time (50%-64.9%): 150.00-194.99 FTE Service Months  
                              3/4 time (65%-89.9%): 195.00-269.99 FTE Service Months  
                              Full-time (90%-100%): 270.00-999.99 FTE Service Months  

He/She - Wherever personal pronouns are used in this Agreement, it shall be 
understood that the gender is neuter.  

Lateral Transfer - A lateral transfer shall be considered the movement of an employee 
within the same grade level.  

Promotion - Promotion shall be considered the movement of an employee to a higher 
grade level.  

Proportional Benefits - Part-time benefits as listed in Paragraph 41 shall be apportioned 
to persons assigned less than full-time in the following manner:  

26 hours but less than 36 hours . . . .75%  

20 hours but less than 26 hours . . . .50%  

Less than 20 hours . . . . . . no benefits 

Rates of Pay  

Base - Is the per hour rate of the employee not including shift differential or overtime 
computations.  

Regular - Is the per hour rate of the employee including shift differential.  

Seniority  

a. University seniority - length of continuous employment, (including Article 12), 
starting with the original date of hire with the Employer, including periods of 
authorized leaves of absence and layoffs consistent with other Articles of this 
Agreement. This date shall be used for benefit purposes.  

b. Bargaining unitseniority - total length of employment within all units listed in 
Article 4, starting on the last date of hire with the Employer, except as abridged 
in Articles 12, 22, and 23. This date shall be used for filling vacancies and 
layoffs. 

To Assist - As used in the Union classification descriptions connotes that an employee 
in a classification will provide whatever operational help is necessary to accomplish a 
task, function or end but will not assume the primary or complete responsibility for the 
accomplishment of that task, function or end. "To assist" does not necessarily infer that 
another co-worker or employee must be constantly present during the accomplishment 
of a task.  

Unavailable - An employee shall be considered unavailable for overtime in the following 
situations:  

- The employee is on sick or funeral leave within 24 hours prior to the scheduled 
overtime, except for sick or funeral leave of less than four (4) hours.  

- While the employee is on vacation and until he/she returns from vacation to 
his/her regular shift unless the employee provides prior written notification to 
his/her Supervisor of his/her availability.  

- The employee has signed an overtime waiver form indicating that he/she does 
not wish to work any overtime.  

- The employee is on an unpaid leave of absence, layoff, Regular or Full 
Worker's Compensation. 

- Except that only in the Custodial Department if it becomes necessary to assign 
overtime, the language in Articles 42 and 43 shall apply and and overtime waivers will 

not be recognized. However the Employer will not arbitrarily and/or capriciously assign 
employees.  

In these situations the employee will not be contacted for overtime, but will be charged 
the average number of overtime hours of the employees working during the overtime 
period.  

Union - Whenever the words Local 1585 or Union appear in this Agreement, they shall 
mean AFSCME Local Union Number 1585, AFL-CIO.  

University or Employer - Whenever the words University or Employer appear in this 
Agreement, they shall mean Michigan State University.  

Workers' Compensation  

"Full" -Is the payment of Workers' Compensation including sick, vacation 
or personal leave accrual supplementation.  

"Regular" - Is the payment of Workers' Compensation with no sick, 
vacation or personal leave accrual supplementation. 

 

