Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

10

Language English

Country United States

State

FL

Union ATU (Amalgamated Transit Union) AFL-CIO

Local Local 1267

Busdrivers 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Broward Board of County Commissioners
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
48-49 (Transportation and Warehousing)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2002

Source

http://www.broward.org/hui02822.htm#AGREEMENT

Original_format HTML (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

 This Agreement, made and  entered into this day of , 1999, by  and between THE BROWARD
 BOARD OF  COUNTY COMMISSIONERS,  DEPARTMENT OF  COMMUNITY SERVICES,  DIVISION OF  MASS
 TRANSIT, its  successors and  assigns, hereinafter  referred to  as the  Employer, and
 AMALGAMATED TRANSIT UNION, LOCAL 1267, hereinafter referred to as the Union,

ATU1267_Broward

 WITNESSETH:

 That the parties hereto contract and agree as follows:

 A G R E E M E N T

 ARTICLE 1
 RECOGNITION

 Section 1: The Employer recognized the  Union as the representative of those employees
 of the Employer who have authorized the Union in writing to represent them, including:
 operators, part-time  operators, mechanics,  storekeepers, utility  employees, service
 employees,  coach  service   attendants,  and  excluding:   supervisors,  professional
 employees, office employees, and guards.

 Section 2: When the term employee is used in this Agreement, it shall mean an employee
 coming within the scope of this Agreement.

 Section 3:  The Union agrees  to furnish the Employer  with an up-to-date list  of all
 officers and  committee  members and  immediately notify  the Employer  of any  change
 thereto.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 2
 MANAGEMENT

 It is not the intention of this Agreement and the same shall not be construed so as to
 limit in any way the right of  the Employer to manage and operate its property. Unless
 specifically limited by this Agreement, the Employer  expressly reserves to itself the
 management,  conduct, control,  and operation  of its business,  the direction  of its
 working forces,  the  establishment of  rules which  would not  be contrary  to or  in
 conflict with this Agreement, instructions and regulations  necessary for safe, proper
 and sound conduct of its business, the  determination of the type, kind, make and size
 of equipment used by  it and the determination of how, when,  and where such equipment
 shall be used, all  as they existed prior to the execution of  this Agreement, that no
 unit employee will suffer  a loss from his/her regular scheduled  workweek as a result
 of the Employer's subcontracting.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 3
 EMPLOYEE COOPERATION

 The employees shall work at all times to the best interest of the Employer; they shall
 perform efficient service in their work; they  shall operate and handle the Employer's
 vehicles carefully, safely,  and with the utmost  regard to the safety  of passengers,
 the general public, and  the equipment entrusted to their  care, operators shall check
 the bus for minor  defects such as all lights, horn,  brakes, body damage, destination
 sign and so forth; they shall operate  and handle the Employer's vehicles at all times
 in full compliance with  the rules of the Employer; they shall  give the riding public
 courteous and respectful treatment at all times to the end that the Employer's service
 may improve  and  grow; and  they shall  at  all times  use their  influence and  best
 endeavors to preserve and  protect the interest of  the Employer and cooperate  in the
 promotion and advancement of the Employer's interest.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract
Page 1

 ARTICLE 4
 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 1: The Employer agrees that  neither it nor any of its officers or supervisors
 will differentiate among,  discriminate against,  interfere with, restrain,  or coerce
 employees because of membership  in the Union or participation  in the Union's regular
 activities, nor  shall  the Employer  discriminate against  any employee  or group  of
 employees for  presenting  to  the Employer  any complaint,  dispute  or grievance  if
 carried  through proper  grievance  procedures  hereinafter  provided, nor  shall  the
 Employer prevent  any  employee from  the wearing  of  the Union's  emblem on  his/her
 uniform.

 Section 2: The Union agrees that neither it nor any of its officers, members or agents
 will intimidate or coerce employees into membership in the Union.

 Section 3 : The  provisions of  this Agreement  shall apply  equally to  all employees
 covered by this Agreement,  without discrimination on the part of  the Employer or the
 Union. There shall  be no  discrimination against anyone  regarding hire or  tenure of
 employment  because  of  race,  color,  age,  religion,  gender,  sexual  orientation,
 disability, or national origin.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 5
 COLLECTION OF DUES

 The Union  shall  indemnify and  hold harmless  the County  from any  and all  claims,
 demands, or expenses in connection with the County's participation in Dues deduction.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 6
 TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITY

 Section 1 :  Leave of  absence without  pay will  be granted  by the  Employer to  its
 employees to accept a position with the Union or with the International Union provided
 the Union shall give  the Employer twelve (12) hours notice and  provided no more than
 two (2) employees shall  be given leave of absence at the same  time for Union reasons
 during any one period  of time. Any employee who takes a leave  of absence as provided
 by this Article shall,  in addition to his/her loss of pay, lose  all benefits for the
 entire period of  such leave  of absence. During  such leave of absence,  the employee
 shall retain his/her seniority status. The employee's  right to return to work for the
 Employer shall  be  contingent upon  the Employer's  existing  rules and  regulations,
 including the employee's  physical capacity for  performing the duties for  which s/he
 was previously employed by  the Employer. Officers of  the Union on Committees  of the
 Union shall have preference  over all other members of the Union  in securing leave of
 absence for business of the Union.

 Section 2:  The Union  steward and a Union  officer shall represent the  employees and
 shall be authorized to resolve grievances and other employee matters on behalf of such
 employees in  any  step  of the  grievance procedure  provided  herein. Such  resolved
 grievances and matters shall  be final and binding  upon the employees and  the Union.
 The job steward and the Union officer shall, within two (2) hours notice, be permitted
 time off without pay to handle local  grievances arising hereunder. The President, the
 Vice President, or Financial  Secretary of the Union  shall authorize a request  for a
 Union member  to be  permitted time off  for Union business,  which employee  shall be
 issued

 his/her regular check on the next regular  payroll, for said absence. The County will,
 for each year of this labor agreement, provide Local 1267 with a bank of 500 hours for
 Union business use. For any Union business hours used beyond 500 hours the County will
 invoice Local  1267 for said  employee cost including  Retirement and  Social Security

Page 2

 during said  absence  payable  within three  (3) days  after  invoice date,  excluding
 Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays.

ATU1267_Broward

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 7
 LEAVE OF ABSENCE

 Section 1:  Leave of  absence without loss of  seniority for reasons other  than union
 business or sickness may  be granted for a  period not to exceed  ninety (90) calendar
 days at the sole  discretion of the Employer. The County reserves  the right to charge
 accrued annual  leave for  the absence  of an  employee who  is away  from work  on an
 authorized extended leave of  absence, other than vacation, not  to exceed ninety (90)
 days.

 Section 2: Employees returning to work after a leave of absence of thirty (30) days or
 more must be able to qualify for  the job under the then existing qualifying standards
 of the Employer, and their compensation shall be at the then prevailing rate.

 Section 3:  Any leave  of absence within  the first twelve  (12) months  of employment
 shall not be  considered as  time worked or  as service with  the Employer  within the
 meaning of any of the other provisions of this Agreement.

 Section 4: Any  employee selected or appointed to  managerial or supervisory positions
 within the County shall be granted a  leave of absence from the Union for a period not
 to exceed  seventy  (70) working  days. During  said requested  leave, the  employee's
 seniority shall be  retained and accumulative.  Any supervisory employee who  wants to
 bid back in  as a mechanic  or an operator after  the initial seventy (70)  day period
 shall do so at  the bottom of the applicable seniority list at  the prevailing rate of
 pay.

 Section 5: Parenting leave shall be  granted upon written request and shall be treated
 the same as sick leave provided in Article 39.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 8
 REDUCTION IN PERSONNEL --- REEMPLOYMENT

 Section 1 : When  it is  necessary to reduce  the regular forces  of the  operators or
 maintenance employees, layoffs of operators shall be in the reverse order of seniority
 as defined in Article 15 of this Agreement, and layoffs of maintenance employees shall
 be in  the  reverse  order of  seniority  within  each classification  of  maintenance
 employees as defined in Article 15 of this Agreement provided the employee retained is
 qualified to perform  the job  and was working  in the classification required  at the
 time of  the reduction  in force.  Employees so  laid off  will retain  and accumulate
 seniority rights during such layoff.

 Section  2:  When  the  regular  forces  of  operators  or maintenance  employees  are
 increased, former  employees of  the Employer  who were  laid off  in accordance  with
 Section 1 of this Article, shall be  offered recall in the reverse order in which they
 were laid off, provided,  however, that this Agreement, or  any renewal, amendment, or
 extension thereof is still in effect, and no more than two (2) years has elapsed since
 their last layoff.

 Section 3: In the recall of  persons in accordance with Section 2 above, the following
 procedure shall be followed:

 First: The Employer will attempt to  notify each person to be reemployed to report for
 work by registered U.S.Mail (return receipt requested)  or by telegram. Such letter or
 telegram shall  be directed  to the  last known  address of  such person,  and a  copy
 thereof shall  be  furnished  to the  Union.  By  so doing,  the  Employer shall  have
 discharged its notice obligations under this Article. Employees who were laid off must

Page 3

 keep the Employer and the Union supplied with a correct and up-to-date mailing address
 or risk forfeiture of their seniority and employment rights.

ATU1267_Broward

 Second: Persons  so notified  to report for work  must report for work  within fifteen
 (15) days after date  of mailing of letter  or transmitting of telegram  or lose their
 seniority and employment rights hereunder.

 Section 4:  When a  layoff exceeds thirty (30)  days, the person offered  recall under
 provisions of this  Article must  be able to  perform the work requirements  under the
 then existing employment standards of the Employer.

 Section 5 : The  Union will  be furnished  copies of  all official  layoff and  recall
 notices to the affected employee(s).

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 9
 PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS

 Section 1:  All employees  shall submit to a  physical examination as often  as deemed
 necessary by the Employer. The expense of  such physical examination shall be borne by
 the Employer, and the examining physician shall be designated by the Employer.

 Section 2 : As  a condition of  continued employment with  the Employer,  any physical
 examination above  provided for  must reveal  the physical  or mental  fitness of  the
 employee involved to perform the duties for which he was employed.

 Section 3 : Should  any required  physical examination above  provided for  reveal the
 physical or mental unfitness of the employee  involved to perform the duties for which
 s/he was  employed,  s/he may  at his/her  option have  a review  of the  case in  the
 following manner:

 A. S/he may employ a licensed physician of their own choosing and at their own expense
 for  the purpose  of  conducting  a  further  physical  examination  for the  same  or
 recommended purpose of the physical examination made  by the physician employed by the
 Employer. A copy of  the findings of the physician so chosen  by the employee involved
 shall be furnished to the Employer, and in the event such findings verify the findings
 of the physician employed by the Employer, no further medical review of the case shall
 be afforded.

 B. In the event  the findings of the  physician chosen by the  employee involved shall
 disagree with the findings of the physician employed by the Employer, the Employer and
 the employee involved  shall, within five (5)  days from such disagreement  agree upon
 and select  a  third (3rd)  qualified, licensed  and disinterested  physician for  the
 purpose of  making a  further physical  examination of the  employee involved.  If the
 third (3rd) physician  agrees to make a  further physical examination of  the employee
 involved, the  employee  must secure  an appointment  with the  third (3rd)  physician
 within five (5) days of such acceptance. The third (3rd) physician shall have five (5)
 days from the  date of  his/her physical examination  of the employee  involved within
 which to submit his/her findings to the  two (2) physicians previously selected by the
 Employer and the  employee. The  findings of the  majority of the three  (3) examining
 physicians shall determine the  disposition of the case and be  final and binding upon
 the parties hereto. The expense of the  employment of such third (3rd) physician shall
 be borne equally by the Employer and the employee.

 C. In the event  the findings of the third (3rd) physician agree  with the findings of
 the physician employed by  the employee, the employee shall be paid  for the days s/he
 was taken out of service but in no event for more than fifteen (15) days from the date
 the employee's physician made his/her findings known to the Employer's physician.

 Section 4: Should  any physical examination provided for above  reveal the physical or
 mental unfitness caused by disease, defects or  disabilities of a temporary or curable
 nature, and  the employee  involved is  willing to  have the cause  or causes  of such
 unfitness treated and rectified, then, in such an event, depending upon the particular

Page 4

 circumstances of each case:

ATU1267_Broward

 A. The employee involved  may continue working while  undergoing medical treatment, if
 the examining  physician, or  a majority  of the  three (3)  examining physicians,  as
 herein above provided, shall certify to his/her ability to safely do so, or

 B. The employee involved  shall be taken out  of service and given  a leave of absence
 for the  purpose of  undergoing medical  treatment until  such time  as the  examining
 physician, or  the majority  of the  three (3) examining  physicians, as  herein above
 provided, shall certify  to his/her physical and  mental fitness to perform  again the
 duties for which s/he was employed; provided, however, such leave of absence shall not
 extend for a  period of  more than two  (2) years, and  the seniority of  the employee
 involved shall be unaffected thereby. Such a leave of absence shall further be subject
 to the provisions  of the  Article relating to  leave of absence  and any  employee on
 leave of absence because of physical or mental unfitness and unable to perform his/her
 duties may  be required  to supply  the employer  with a  physician's report  covering
 his/her condition at such  interval, or intervals which the  Employer may require. The
 limitation of leave provided in this Section  may be extended only by mutual agreement
 between the Employer and the Union.

 Section 5: Physicians employed by the  other party, as required in this Article, shall
 be members of the American Medical Association or American College of Surgeons, except
 as permitted by mutual agreement between the parties.

 Section 6: Employees  will not be required  to go for a  physical examination on their
 day or days off.

 Section 7: Any  employee who is found  temporarily incapable of fulfilling  the duties
 for which they were  hired or found permanently  incapable of returning to  the duties
 for which they were hired  may be given preference in a job they  are capable of doing
 over the hiring of  new employees or train  for a new position  where possible, in the
 highest prevailing rate within the job classification where they are placed.

 Section 8: Specified employees will be required to submit to a physical to be given by
 a physician of the County's choice, subject  to the requirements of State Rule Chapter
 S- 14.90 Equipment and Operational Safety Standards Public Sector Bus Transit Systems.
 If such a physical is scheduled on  the employee's day off, the employee shall be paid
 for the actual time necessary to undergo  the physical at the employee's straight time
 hourly rate with a minimum guarantee of three (3) hours pay.

 Section 9: Any  Operator that is found temporarily incapable of  fulfilling his or her
 duties as provided  in Section  two (2)  above or due  to a non-job related  injury or
 illness, will work light duty for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days in a year.

 A. Light Duty Guidelines --- The light duty lists below will be a guideline to utilize
 Workers Compensation employees first, then "personal" injury employees.

 B. The time allowed  for light duty will be limited to  the medical recommendation, as
 agreed to by the County and will not be considered a permanent change in assignment.

 C. An employee claiming personal injury and  requesting light duty will be required to
 submit doctor's lines and  the Alternate Duty Criteria  and Guidelines form, completed
 by the doctor  including his/her recommendation  of the employee's ability  to perform
 duties on  the  light  duty list  (including  limits, if  any,  on lifting,  stooping,
 bending, etc).

 D. The  following  list  possible duties  with reasonable  accommodations  made on  an
 individual basis:

 Operations -  Phone room,  guard shack, information  centers, office/field  work, crew
 vehicle driving, other duties as agreed to by the County and the Union.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

Page 5

 ARTICLE 10
 DISCIPLINE OF EMPLOYEES

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 1: All  charges preferred by the Employer against  its employees for violation
 of its rules or  other offenses must be preferred within five (5)  days after any such
 alleged violation or offense  has been made known to the official  or officials of the
 Employer or their designees.  If the charges are not preferred  within the time limits
 set forth  herein,  such alleged  violation or  offense  shall be  forever barred  and
 extinguished, provided,  however, that any  violation of the  rules pertaining  to the
 mishandling of fares  or mis-appropriation of  the Employer's funds or  property shall
 not come within the  scope of the foregoing provisions  of this Section. Additionally,
 any discipline meted out  in other than fare violations must be  begun within five (5)
 days of notification to the employee.

 Section 2:  If any  employee is charged with  an offense involving the  mishandling of
 fares, drunkenness, possession or use of an  illegal substance or the misappropriation
 of the Employer's funds or property, neither  such charges nor discipline meted out in
 connection therewith  shall be  subject to  the grievance  and arbitration  procedures
 provided for  in this  Agreement unless  and until  the grievance  and/or demands  for
 arbitration in such cases  be accompanied by a signed  authorization from the employee
 involved releasing the Employer  and the Union to  submit any and all  information and
 facts pertaining to the case to whomever they may concern.

 Section 3: When the Employer disciplines  an employee and/or places a written entry of
 the  incident in  the  employee's  file, the  employee  and  Union involved  shall  be
 furnished a  copy of  the entry.  An employee  may examine and  copy from  his/her own
 employee  file  at  any  reasonable  time.  After thirty  (30)  months  all  materials
 pertaining to  discipline in  an employee's  file will  not be  used for  disciplinary
 purposes.

 Section 4: If, as a result of investigation or upon appeal, the discipline, suspension
 or dismissal of an  employee is found to have been without  just cause, his/her record
 of the alleged offense  will be cleared, and if time has been  lost, the employee will
 be paid for such loss of time by the Employer in accordance with the amount s/he would
 have received had s/he not been held from service.

 Section 5 :  Employees'  personnel records  are available  for  review during  regular
 business hours consistent with  the provisions of chapter  119, Florida Public Records
 Law.

 A.  Prior to  any  disciplinary  hearing,  all  documentation,  in the  possession  of
 management, relating to the case will be given to a union official for review.

 Section 6 :  Any employee  who is  absent  without leave  for  a period  of three  (3)
 consecutive workdays will  be considered  terminated. However, the Employer  will hold
 the position for a  period of ten (10) working days thereafter  to permit the employee
 to register an excuse to be considered by the Employer and, if no excuse is authorized
 or accepted within the said ten (10) working days, the employee will be terminated.

 Section 7: Employees shall not be  formally reprimanded or disciplined in public or in
 the presence  of other  non-supervisory employees.  Effective discipline  or reprimand
 will be administered only by the Employer's supervisory personnel.

 Section 8: No  employee will be formally  reprimanded without the presence  of a Union
 representative if the employee to be reprimanded  requested the presence of such Union
 representative.

 Section 9: Official written communications between  the Employer and the Union will be
 answered promptly by the party receiving them.

 Section 10: The employer reserves the  right to suspend employees without pay when the
 conduct of  the  employee constitutes  insubordination, a  violation  of the  County's
 Workplace Violence policy and drunkenness.

 Section 11 :  The time  limits  set forth  in this  Article  shall exclude  Saturdays,

Page 6

 Sundays, and holidays.

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 12 : Conferences  with employees by  management involving  disciplinary issues
 shall be conducted at the employees work location.

 Section 13: Within fifteen (15) working days after the conclusion of an Administrative
 Review, the employer will notify the employee and the union of any disciplinary action
 to be taken.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 11
 GRIEVANCES AND
 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES

 Section 1: A grievance is defined to be:

 A. Any controversy between  the Employer and the Union as to  any matter involving the
 interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement as set forth; and

 B. Any controversy between the Employer and the Union as to whether or not an employee
 disciplined or discharged for violation of any  rule of the Employer is guilty of such
 violation.

 Section 2: In  the settlement  of a grievance under  the terms of this  Agreement, the
 following procedure shall be observed:

 First:  No grievance  shall be  entertained or  considered unless  it is  presented in
 writing.

 A. Within five (5) days  after the incident was known by the Union  or the employee of
 the  facts  which  give  rise  to  the controversy  involving  the  interpretation  or
 application of the terms of employment as set forth; or

 B. Within  five  (5)  days after  the  discipline  or discharge  of  any employee  for
 violation of any rule of the County or other offense.

 C. Otherwise the grievance arising under Paragraph A or B above is deemed waived.

 D. All grievances  entered in  written form will  be answered in writing,  stating any
 reason for the party's  position and the provisions  of the contract relied  upon, and
 signed by the person responding.

 Second: Any grievance presented  in a due and timely manner,  as herein above provided
 shall be processed as follows: the grievance  of the aggrieved party shall be taken up
 by the officers or  committee of the Union or the designated  official or officials of
 the Employer, and the  parties shall meet within, but not exceed,  five (5) days after
 the receipt of  such grievance.  Within not more  than five (5) days  thereafter, such
 grievance  shall  have  been  settled  or  arbitration shall  have  been  demanded  as
 hereinafter provided.  If not  so settled and  if arbitration shall  not have  been so
 demanded by either Employer  or the Union, such grievance  shall be considered forever
 closed.

 Section 3: The time limits set forth in this Article shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays,
 and holidays.

 Section 4: All Bargaining  Unit employees shall use  the grievance procedure specified
 in this Article regardless  of Union membership or  lack thereof where a  grievance as
 stipulated in  this  Article  arises. The  County  agrees to  furnish  the Union  with
 responses to each step of the procedure and notice of any arbitration hearing date.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

Page 7

 ARTICLE 12
 ARBITRATION AND
 ARBITRATION PROCEDURES

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 1: If the parties are unable  to reach a settlement of the grievance using the
 procedure outlined in Article 11, either party may submit the grievance to arbitration
 by serving notice to  the other party by certified mail within six  (6) days after the
 denial of  the  grievance in  the  grievance procedure  of its  intent  to proceed  to
 arbitration. Only grievances  which have  been filed in  writing and processed  in the
 manner and within  the time limit  set forth in Article  11 and this Article  shall be
 subject to Arbitration.

 Section 2: Within  five (5)  days after a  union vote for arbitration  or management's
 decision to proceed  to arbitration, the  party requesting arbitration shall  apply to
 the Federal  Mediation  and Conciliation  Service for  a  list of  five (5)  qualified
 arbitrators. The  parties shall  confer within seven  (7) days of  the receipt  of the
 arbitration list for the  purpose of striking names  from the list. The  parties shall
 strike names from the  list alternately and the  moving party shall strike  first. The
 arbitrator  remaining after  each  party  has  two  (2)  strikes  shall be  named  the
 arbitrator for the grievance.

 Section 3:  The Arbitrator  shall not  have any  authority to  add to,  subtract from,
 amend, modify, ignore or nullify any of  the terms of this Agreement. The scope of the
 Arbitrator's authority  shall  be limited  to conducting  the  hearing, examining  the
 witnesses of each party, considering the evidence and briefs, if any, and interpreting
 the language of the Agreement for the  sole purpose of determining whether a specified
 provision thereof has been breached with respect  to disputes qualifying under Section
 1 of Article 11,  or in the case  of discharges whether such  discharges were for just
 cause.

 Section 4:  The cost  of arbitration,  including the  cost of  the court  reporter and
 transcript where requested  by the arbitrator shall  be borne equally by  the parties,
 except that each party shall pay the full cost of its own witnesses and investigation.

 Section 5:  In the  event of  failure of either  party to act  within the  time limits
 provided in this Article, the party so  failing shall forfeit its case, but forfeiture
 shall not establish  a precedent, nor an  admission of a contract  violation, provided
 the parties may extend the time limits as set out in this Article by mutual agreement.

 Section 6: The time limits set forth in this Article shall exclude Saturdays, Sundays,
 and holidays.

 Section 7:  The  decision of  the Arbitrator  shall become  final and  binding on  the
 parties to this agreement when delivered to them in writing.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 13
 BEREAVEMENT OR JURY DUTY

 Section 1: Any employee called to serve on Jury duty shall be paid the wages that s/he
 would have  earned in  his/her regular assigned  duties in addition  to the  amount he
 received from  the Court  for his/her duties  as a juror,  provided, however,  that if
 excused prior  to  2:00  p.m., such  employee  shall  present herself/himself  to  the
 Employer for assignment. For the purpose of this Article only, eight (8) hours will be
 considered a regular assignment for an extra operator.

 Section 2: Employees  covered by this Agreement  shall receive three (3)  working days
 leave with pay to attend a funeral  within Florida and five (5) working days to attend
 a funeral outside of  Florida, to be computed at the  employee's regular work schedule
 or no less than  eight (8) hours pay at the employee's regular  prevailing rate of pay
 effective at the time of the death of one of the following:

 1. Present wife

Page 8

ATU1267_Broward

 2. Present husband
 3. Children
 4. Step-children
 5. Mother
 6. Father
 7. Step-parent
 8. Present Mother-in-law
 9. Present Father-in-law
 10. Brother
 11. Sister12.
 12. Step-brother
 13. Step-sister
 14. Grandparents
 15. Grandchildren
 16. Any other relative domiciled in the employees household

 Upon verbal notification of a death in one of the above classifications, employee will
 be immediately granted time off. However, the Employer may require presentation to the
 Division of  Mass  Transit administration  of evidence  of  the death  as required  on
 Broward County  BC-112 prior to  receipt of bereavement  pay. Penalties  for providing
 false information with regard  to any portion of  this section of this  Article may be
 cause for immediate termination.

 Section 3: An  employee may request additional  bereavement leave with pay  or without
 pay, and the Employer shall grant or  deny such additional leave requests. Bereavement
 leave   with   pay   shall   be   deducted   from   the   employee's   annual   leave.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 14
 INSURANCE

 Section 1:  The parties  agree to  adopt the  insurance policy  provided employees  of
 Broward County,  Florida, on the  same terms and  conditions of  employee contribution
 that is recognized by the County for its employees. During the life of this Agreement,
 should any other County labor union receive an increase in Flex dollars the members of
 this  bargaining unit  will  also  receive that  increase.  During  the life  of  this
 Agreement, the Employer agrees to carry Ten  Thousand Dollars ($10,000) life insurance
 with a provision for an additional Ten  Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) accidental death
 and dismemberment coverage.

 Section 2: If an employee is assaulted,  molested, or hurt on the job through no fault
 of his/her own, and  loses time from work,  the Employer shall make  up the difference
 between his/her pay and  Workers' Compensation based on  eight (8) hours pay  per day,
 provided, however, that employees  hired after October 1,  l979, who lose time  on the
 job through no  fault of  their own s/he will  be compensated as per  Broward County's
 Workers' Compensation policy.

 Section 3: If paid sick days are  used while on Workers' Compensation, those paid sick
 days will  be deducted  from the employee  differential pay and  replaced in  the sick
 bank.

 Section 4: Operators on Workers' Compensation as  provided for in this contract may be
 assigned other  duties  when so  authorized by  the  designated Workers'  Compensation
 physician, provided the  work is  to be performed between  the hours of 5:00  a.m. and
 11:00 p.m.  Maintenance employees  on Workers'  Compensation as  provided for  in this
 contract may be  assigned other duties when  so authorized by the  designated Workers'
 Compensation physician, provided  the employee may  be assigned such duty  between the
 hours of 5:00 a.m.  and 9:00 p.m., or on the shift the  employee is normally assigned.
 When assigned duties  other than  his/her normal duty at  the time of the  injury, the
 employee will earn the same rate of pay earned.

 Section 5: The provisions  of Article 9, Sections  l through 6 shall  be applicable to
 Section 4 of this Article.

Page 9

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 6:  The Employer  agrees that  no Operator  while on  light duty  will operate
 transit buses.

 Section 7: The  Employer shall  provide at no  cost to the employee  felonious assault
 insurance with a principal sum of $100,000.00.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 15
 GENERAL SENIORITY

 Section 1:

 A. The seniority  and "date of employment"  of all employees as  presently established
 shall  be deemed  to  be  correctly  established as  of  the  effective date  of  this
 Agreement, indisputable errors excepted.

 B.  The seniority  and  "date  of employment"  of  all  employees employed  after  the
 effective date of this  Agreement shall date from the hour and  day of last employment
 with the Broward County Community Services Department, Division of Mass Transit.

 Section 2: For all purposes relating to seniority, two (2) departments of the Employer
 shall be recognized; namely, the Operating Department  and the Maintenance Department.
 The seniority of all  employees covered by this  Agreement shall be determined  by the
 length of their continuous  service in the Operating Department  or in the Maintenance
 Department, as the case may be. Employees  may not hold seniority in more than one (1)
 department of the Employer.

 Section 3: The Employer agrees to post within thirty (30) days, and thereafter to keep
 posted in an accessible place, an up-to-date  and revised seniority roster showing the
 name, "date  of employment,"  and seniority  standing of all  of the  employees coming
 within the scope of this Agreement.

 Section 4: No unit employee will work  part-time in the office or as a road supervisor
 or radio dispatcher and part-time as an operator in order to learn supervision.

 Section 5: It shall be the policy  of the Employer to encourage promotion from within,
 when feasible, consistent with qualified applicants for supervisory positions.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 16
 VACATIONS

 Section 1: The  number of hours of  paid vacation will be shown  on the employee's pay
 stub. All  vacations shall start  after the employee's  last scheduled  workday before
 vacation begins.

 Section 2: Said employees coming within  the scope of this Agreement shall be entitled
 to receive vacation in accordance with the "schedule of vacations" and the eligibility
 as provided in this Article.

 MAXIMUM HOURS OF VACATION PAY

 Number of   Maximum
 Full Years  Vacation                                    Maintenance
 of Service  Period   Regular Operators  Extra Operators Employees
 1- 4 Yrs.   2 weeks  The normal number  The average     The normal number
 5-l4 Yrs.   3 weeks  of hours in the    weekly earnings of hours in the
 15-24 Yrs.  4 weeks  regular weekly     for the four    regular week ly
 25 Yrs.     5 weeks  assignment         (4) weeks       assignment
 kkkkkkkkkkk          representing       preceding the   representing

Page 10

ATU1267_Broward

                      straight time and  vacation period straight time and
                      regular overtime   but not less    regular overtime
                      in the regular     than forty (40) in the regular
                      weekly work        hours per week. weekly work
                      assignment                         assignment
                      immediately prior                  immediately prior
                      to the vacation.                   to the vacation.

 Section 3: To be eligible for any of the vacation as provided herein, an employee must
 have completed  not  less  than twelve  (12)  months of  continuous  service with  the
 Employer subsequent  to his/her  last date  of employment.  Thereafter, such  employee
 shall have established his/her first (1st) full  year of service with the Employer and
 will be entitled to  receive a vacation in accordance  with the eligibility provisions
 as herein established.

 Section 4: In this Section, it is intended and agreed between the parties to establish
 January 1 of the year next succeeding their last date of employment as the eligibility
 rate for annual vacation purposes of employees  employed on and after January 1, 1971;
 therefore, in accordance with this Agreement the following shall apply:

 Any employee on the payroll of the  Employer whose last date of employment occurred on
 and after January  1 of the  year shall, upon completion  of no less than  twelve (12)
 months of continuous and active service with  the Employer, subject to the eligibility
 provisions of this Article, be entitled to  a prorated vacation allowance and vacation
 pay from his/her last date of employment to the end of the calendar year in which s/he
 was employed,  and thereafter shall  be deemed to  have correctly  established his/her
 eligibility date for all vacation purposes as  of January 1 of the year next following
 his/her last  date of employment  and thereafter, in  accordance with  the eligibility
 requirements established in  the Article shall, during  the twelve (12) months  of the
 calendar year immediately following January, of each year, be entitled to the vacation
 allowance and  vacation pay  as established  in the  "Schedule of  Vacations" of  this
 Article.

 Section 5 : To  be eligible  for any  of the  annual vacation  as provided  herein, an
 employee must have worked no less than  seventy-five percent (75%) of his/her allotted
 working days during the  twelve (12) months immediately  preceding his/her anniversary
 date of  any year,  except that  up to  sixty (60)  days of absence  due to  bona fide
 illness or injury shall  be counted as time worked in  determining the eligibility and
 qualifications for vacations as herein established. An  employee who has not worked in
 accordance with the provisions of this Section shall not be entitled to a vacation. An
 employee who  is  terminated after  one (1)  year of  service shall  receive pro  rata
 vacation pay for an accrued vacation at his/her current rate of pay then in affect.

 Section 6: An employee may not accumulate his/her vacation from year to year, but must
 take any vacation  to which s/he becomes  entitled in accordance with  the eligibility
 provisions as set forth herein; provided, however, the County may establish the period
 of time for vacations and the  number of employees that may be off at  any one time in
 any department,  provided such periods  are established no  later than  the succeeding
 period of  his/her  anniversary year.  Other than  as  provided in  this Section,  the
 vacation eligibility  of  the employees  shall be  posted  on the  bulletin board  and
 employees shall  bid for vacations  within the periods  prescribed according  to their
 general  seniority within  each  work  site.  Employees  shall  bid  in the  order  of
 seniority, and if they fail to bid  in the order of seniority, and if they fail to bid
 promptly or to authorize some person to act in their behalf, the Employer shall assign
 their vacation or permit  other employees to sign around them  and the employees shall
 be allowed to choose  any open remaining period  available to them in  accordance with
 their seniority within each work site.

 Section 7: The vacation period is  from January 1 through December 3l. Excluding first
 year employees, vacations will be picked in weekly increments.

 Section 8: Any annual leave paid to an employee to cover illness due to the exhaustion
 of paid  sick  time will  be deducted  from the  employee's vacation  time. Should  an
 employee, who has  used annual  leave to cover  an illness, demonstrate  to management
 that a significant hardship  (i.e. paid reservations made prior  to the illness) would

Page 11

 occur if the employee  is not granted previously picked  vacation time, management may
 consider granting vacation time as Leave Without Pay.

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 9: Employees shall have the option, during the vacation pick, to designate one
 (1) week (forty hours) of their vacation  for use in increments of one (1) day. At the
 same time in November  that employees declare whether or not they  will use sick leave
 conversion, they will also make known their  intention to use incremental vacation for
 the following  year. Employees  electing to  use vacation  in one-day  increments must
 preschedule at  least  three  (3) incremental  days of  vacation  during the  December
 vacation  pick. The  remaining  portion  of the  forty  (40)  hours of  vacation  time
 designated for incremental use shall be considered floating vacation days.

 Request and approval for floating vacation days  must be made to the Superintendent by
 September 30th. Floating days for which scheduling has not been requested and approved
 by September 30th shall be paid out  to a maximum of sixteen (16) hours at the regular
 straight time hourly rate. The maximum total number of hours of vacation time used and
 paid out shall not exceed forty (40) hours.

 Section 10: Maintenance employees only are eligible to use eight (8) hours of vacation
 time on an hourly basis.

 Section 11 : A bid  sheet will  be posted when  a vacation date  comes open  after the
 completion of the annual vacation pick. Open dates will be bid by seniority.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 17
 PROBATIONARY PERIOD

 The probationary  period as  herein established  is to provide  a trial  period during
 which the  Employer may  judge the  new employee's  ability, competency,  fitness, and
 other qualifications to perform the work for which s/he is employed.

 Section 1: For  all unit employees except  those listed below the  probationary period
 shall  be for  six  (6)  calendar  months  from  the  established "date  and  hour  of
 employment."

 A. Operators  who are  full-time from  the beginning  of training  - six  (6) calendar
 months from the completion of training.

 B. Part-time Operators - see Article 46, Section 6.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 18
 HOLIDAYS

 Section 1: All employees covered under this Agreement will be paid for the holidays at
 their regularly  scheduled  hours, but  no  less than  eight (8)  hours  pay per  day,
 provided they  work  a  minimum of  four  (4) hours  during  their scheduled  workdays
 immediately prior to and immediately after the  holiday unless excused by the Employer
 or if a doctor's certificate is provided.

 Section 2 : Employees  who perform  a work assignment  on the  aforementioned holidays
 shall be paid  for all  hours worked at  one and one-half  (1 ½) times  their straight
 hourly rate of pay. In addition thereto,  they shall receive the holiday pay specified
 in Section 1 of  the Article, for regularly  scheduled hours at regular  straight time
 rate, or overtime, whichever is applicable.

 Section 3 : The  Employer reserves the  right to designate  whether a  holiday defined
 above is a workday for the employees covered hereunder. Any employee scheduled to work
 on a designated holiday and who fails  to work as scheduled without an excused absence
 from the Employer shall not be entitled  to receive holiday pay unless a doctor's note

Page 12

 is presented.

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 4 :  If a  holiday occurs  while  an employee  is  on vacation,  jury duty  or
 bereavement leave, the employee will receive the holiday pay specified in Section 1 of
 this  Article, for  regularly  scheduled  hours  at  regular  straight time  rate,  or
 overtime, whichever is applicable.

 Section 5: The  Employer will notify employees  seven (7) days in  advance of the work
 schedule. If  no  notice is  given, a  holiday schedule  will be  observed. Bids,  for
 maintenance employees only,  will be posted no  later than seven (7)  consecutive days
 prior to the holiday.

 Section 6:  In the event  that a maintenance holiday  schedule is posted for  pick and
 vacancies occur due  to not being  picked by designated classification  employees, the
 Union and the County will work together to assign the vacancies.

 Section 7:*

 A.All unit employees  will be granted eleven  (11) holidays during the  fiscal year as
 follows:

                                   FY 99-2000

 Holiday                 Day to be Observed            Work Schedule*
 Veteran's Day           Thursday, November 11, 1999   Regular
 Thanksgiving Day        Thursday, November 25, 1999   Holiday
 After Thanksgiving      Friday, November 26, 1999     Regular
 Christmas               Saturday, December 25, 1999   Holiday
 New Year's Day          Saturday, January 1, 2000     Holiday
 Martin Luther King Day  Monday, January 17, 2000      Regular
 Memorial Day            Monday, May 29, 2000          Holiday
 Independence Day        Tuesday, July 4, 2000         Holiday
 Labor Day               Monday, September 4, 2000     Holiday
 Two Personal Days       See Administrative Order 400

                                   FY 2000-01

 Holiday                 Day to be Observed            Work Schedule*
 Veteran's Day           Saturday, November 11, 2000   Regular
 Thanksgiving Day        Thursday, November 23, 2000   Holiday
 After Thanksgiving      Friday, November 24, 2000     Regular
 Christmas               Monday, December 25, 2000     Holiday
 New Year's Day          Monday, January 1, 2001       Holiday
 Martin Luther King Day  Monday, January 15, 2001      Regular
 Memorial Day            Monday, May 28, 2001          Holiday
 Independence Day        Wednesday, July 4, 2001       Holiday
 Labor Day               Monday, September 3, 2001     Holiday
 Two Personal Days       See Administrative Order 400

                                  FY 2001-02

 Holiday                 Day to be Observed            Work Schedule*
 Veteran's Day           Sunday, November 11, 2001     Regular
 Thanksgiving Day        Thursday, November 23, 2001   Holiday
 After Thanksgiving      Friday, November 24, 2001     Regular
 Christmas               Tuesday, December 25, 2001    Holiday
 New Year's Day          Tuesday, January 1, 2002      Holiday
 Martin Luther King Day  Monday, January 14, 2002      Regular
 Memorial Day            Monday, May 27, 2002          Holiday
 Independence Day        Thursday, July 4, 2002        Holiday
 Labor Day               Monday, September 2, 2002     Holiday
 Two Personal Days       See Administrative Order 400

 B. If additional holidays are granted by the Broward County Commission during the
 terms of this contract, those holidays are to be granted to all unit employees. If any

Page 13

 additional holidays are approved by the Board of County Commissioners, the Director of
 Mass Transit will determine the day to be observed and announce the work schedule per
 Section 5 of this Article.

ATU1267_Broward

 *NOTE:Unless otherwise changed as subject to provisions of Section 3 of this Article.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 19
 FUTURE OPERATIONS

 In the event the Division of Mass Transit, Broward County, Florida, throughout the
 term of this contract should implement operations out of another work base station,
 the following conditions will apply:

 Prior to assignment of personnel covered under this Agreement, negotiations will be
 reopened regarding this Article of the current Agreement to consider methods of
 implementing seniority. This Article is not to be construed as intent to reopen any
 other Article or Section in the Agreement.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 20
 BULLETIN BOARDS

 There shall be placed in the operators' room and in the maintenance room or other
 reporting places a bulletin board on which this Agreement and any changes in or
 supplement to shall be posted, and on said bulletin board the Union shall have the
 right to post notices through which the Union may desire to reach and notify its
 members, provided that such notice shall in no way contain instructions for any action
 on the part of the membership which will be contrary to the contract between the Union
 and the Employer or in violation of any by-laws of the Union. There shall be placed on
 said bulletin board any change made in its management by the Employer which may be of
 interest to the Union, and the Union shall post on the bulletin board any changes in
 the officers of the Union or in the members of the executive board. All notices shall
 be initialed or signed by the President or his/her designee.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 21
 ACCIDENTS: REPORTS --- PREVENTIONS

 Section 1:

 A. Any employee involved in any accidents or incidents will make an immediate report
 to supervisory personnel in case of a serious accident or any personal injury. In any
 event, a written report must be made fully, properly, and completely covering the
 occurrence and delivered by the employee so involved as soon as possible following
 such involvement. Said reports are to be made to the Supervisor of Accident Reporting
 or his/her designee at each work location.

 B. When an employee is involved in an accident, the Accident Review Board will make a
 determination as to the chargeability of this incident or accident based on the
 information in the accident report and the Employer's investigation. The employee
 shall have the right to appeal this decision to the Accident Review Board.

 The Accident Review Board shall be made up of five (5) members, two (2) of whom are to
 be named by the Union and two (2) of whom are to be named by the Employer. The
 Employer and the Union may from time to time designate replacements or alternates to
 serve in case of vacancies on the panel of the positions filled by them respectively.

 The fifth (5th) member of the panel shall be the Safety Coordinator of Broward County

Page 14

ATU1267_Broward
 or his/her designee and shall serve as Chairperson.

 The Accident Review Board shall meet at the Broward County Division of Mass Transit
 headquarters in Broward County, once during each calendar quarter or sooner, if
 needed.

 An appeal by an employee to the Accident Review Board must be reduced to writing and
 submitted to the safety representative of the Division within ten (10) days after the
 determination of chargeability by the Employer representative herein above referred
 to. Jurisdiction of the Accident Review Board shall be limited to a determination of
 the question of whether the employee is charged or not charged with an accident. A
 decision by the Accident Review Board shall have no bearing upon the disciplinary
 action to which the employee may rightfully be subject by the Employer on account of
 the accident, disputes over such disciplinary action being reserved for determination
 under the regular grievance procedure provided for in the Agreement.

 Section 2: The Employer and the Union recognize that accident prevention work is
 necessarily incident to the interest of the Employer and the employees and that safety
 programs, safety meetings and general accident work is beneficial to both the Employer
 and the employees. Therefore, the Union agrees that it will encourage employees to
 voluntarily attend all safety meetings and cooperate in all ways in safety work and
 take an active part and interest in all accident preventive work.

 Section 3: Every effort will be made to maintain speedometers on coaches. If the
 speedometer is inoperative or is not working, the Employer shall pay speeding
 citations issued to drivers.

 Section 4:

 ACCIDENT REVIEW BOARD
 DIVISION OF MASS TRANSIT
 MEMBERSHIP

 Persons representing employees, appointed by Amalgamated Transit
 Union Local l267                                                   2
 Persons representing Mass Transit Management, appointed by
 Director, Division of Mass Transit                                 2
  Designated member, Broward County Safety Coordinator              1
                                                      Total members 5

                                       MEETINGS

 The  Accident Review  Board  will  meet the  second  Monday  of each  month;  however,
 exceptions may be made in writing by the Director.

 No reviews will be conducted without all five (5) members present.

 All meetings will be  held at the Mass  Transit Facility, Copans Road,  Pompano Beach,
 Florida.

                                        PURPOSE

 The Review Board has only one purpose. To review all accidents, or incidents involving
 the operation  of  any motor  vehicle owned  by and  operated for  the Broward  County
 Commission.

                                        ACTION

 Should an accident/incident be  found not preventable by the  Review Board, the matter
 will be dropped and considered a closed issue.

 Should an accident/incident be found preventable, the  following procedure will follow
 immediately:

 1. Each of the five (5) members will assess the degree of negligence and apply a value

Page 15

 of 0 to 25,  with "0" being the  least of value and "25" being  the maximum value. The
 total point assessment  will then be  divided by 5, to  arrive at the final  degree of
 negligence.

ATU1267_Broward

 A Report of the  Board will be presented to the Division  Director for further action,
 if any.

 A point accumulation of 25 or more points within any twelve (12) calendar month period
 may call for automatic immediate dismissal.

 1. All accidents/incidents occurring  prior to the last  Monday of each month  will be
 reviewed on  the  second Monday  of the  following  month. Exceptions  being when  the
 Director calls a special meeting.

 2. Employees involved in  accident/incidents being considered by  the Board may appear
 for the purpose of explaining or enlightening facts contained in their written report.
 No employee will be  permitted to offer additional information  not contained in their
 written report.

 Should an employee wish  to offer additional information in writing they  may do so by
 presenting the written information at the Board  meeting and requesting a postponement
 until the next month's meeting.

 Section 5: Any  employee who is removed from service due to  loss of driving privilege
 may, upon approval of  the Director of Transit, after consultation  with the Union, be
 placed temporarily in another  unit position at the prevailing  rate in that position.
 This action shall  only be  taken at the request  of the affected employee  within ten
 (10) days of losing driving privilege.

 Section 6: Management  may determine that an employee is to  be scheduled for specific
 training. The  employee will  be given  reasonable notice  of one  week. Training  not
 conducted during  the employee's  regular working  hours will  be scheduled  before or
 after working hours or during split time.

 If training is conducted away from the  employee's assigned facility other than during
 regular working hours, the employee will be paid a total of 30 minutes travel time.

 A. Training will be a minimum of two hours inclusive of travel time.

 B. Training will  be subject to overtime  if conducted outside the  employee's regular
 working hours and the employee otherwise makes his/her 40 hours. Extra board operators
 who have made their 5 weekly reports will also be eligible to receive overtime.

 C. Training is  intended as  a positive step  to prevent accidents or  incidents which
 affect safety and passenger  relations. However, training will not  be used to replace
 discipline which may otherwise be imposed under this agreement.

 Section 7: In accidents where an  employee receives a formal disciplinary action, such
 disciplinary action will not be used in  a determination of severity of discipline for
 future accidents if the accident has been on file 30 months or more.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 22
 RUNS AND DAYS OFF

 Section 1: The  amount of service to be furnished to the  public and the determination
 of the number of  bus schedules and changes therein shall be  exclusively and solely a
 function and  responsibility  of the  Employer; however,  in the  construction of  its
 regular service into regular run assignments, it is the policy of the Employer, to the
 extent it is reasonably  practical, to construct its regular  service into regular run
 assignments, provided, however, nothing contained herein shall  be reconstructed as to
 require  the Employer  to  construct  any of  its  regular  service into  regular  run
 assignments, as  to include  penalty payments  of any nature.  The Employer  agrees to

Page 16

 acquaint the Union committee  with any changes in regular schedules, that  may be in a
 position to inform their membership of such schedule changes.

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 2: All pieces of  work with a time interval of four (4)  hours or more between
 pieces will be  worked as  piece work from the  Extra Board, unless picked  by regular
 operators. Piecework which becomes open will be posted for bid within five (5) working
 days.

 A. If split runs are  constructed so as to contain more than one  (1) interval of time
 between pieces of work,  the shortest of such  intervals shall be paid  at the regular
 straight time hourly rate of pay.

 B. Any school tripper added to service to relieve overloads due to school traffic will
 be worked from the extra board.

 C. The Employer reserves  the right to schedule  a four (4) day  work week, which will
 have at least two (2) consecutive days off.

 D. Work performed on regular two (2)  piece runs in excess of two and one half (2-1/2)
 hour intervening spread time  shall be compensated at the  established hourly rate. At
 least sixty-five percent (65%) of all regular runs at each work site will be straight.
 Runs with a spread of  one hour or less will be considered straight.  There will be no
 split runs on Sunday. At least sixty-eight percent (68%) of all operators at each work
 site will have two (2) consecutive days off.

 E. Part-time  operators  will  not be  used  to  avoid the  payment  of overtime,  but
 preference of additional work  shall be given to  eligible full-time operators, except
 as specifically provided for part-time operators in Article 46.

 Section 3: All  assigned regular runs shall  be constructed so as  to contain at least
 forty (40) hours pay per week, either  on a four (4) or five (5) day basis. Runs shall
 be constructed to include  all scheduled pay time including  travel, report and spread
 time.

 Section 4:  The workweek shall  commence at 12:01 a.m.  every Sunday and end  at 12:00
 midnight every Saturday night.  An operating day begins when the  first bus leaves the
 garage in the morning and ends when the last bus returns to the garage at night.

 Section 5: Overtime  for all operators shall be computed and paid  on all hours worked
 in excess of forty (40) hours per week.

 A. For the purposes  of computing overtime, hours  actually worked, approved scheduled
 vacations, report  time, and  travel time,  and holiday  time equal  to the  employees
 normal scheduled hours of  work for that holiday, shall be  considered as time worked.
 All other times are  excluded, including sick leave and  authorized leaves of absence,
 and all other holiday hours.

 B. Operators working  their day off will be paid one and  one-half (1-1/2) times their
 regular rate of pay  for all hours performed  in excess of forty  (40) hours per week.
 After working a full weekly work schedule  an operator will be paid for all additional
 work including days off at the overtime rate.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 23
 EXTRA OPERATORS

 Section 1: No  extra operator may be  excused from taking a run  that falls to his/her
 lot. Should an extra  operator fail to make any report to which  s/he is assigned, the
 amount of the weekly  minimum guarantee of pay shall be reduced  by one-fifth (1/5) of
 said guarantee for each day the extra  board operator fails to report properly. If the
 employee is held for work by the  dispatcher, the employee shall not forfeit one-fifth
 (1/5) of his/her guarantee.  In the event an  extra board operator is  "run around" by
 the dispatcher, although  available for  duty at the  time, such extra  board operator

Page 17

 shall be guaranteed  pay for  such "run around"  regardless of job assignment  for the
 day. In the event  the extra board operator  who has been "run  around" is assigned to
 perform work by the  Employer after s/he reports to the work  site and such assignment
 extends beyond  the "run  around" job  assignment, the extra  board operator  shall be
 compensated at  one and  one-half (1-1/2) times  his/her regular rate  of pay  for all
 hours worked in excess of his/her "run around" hours.

ATU1267_Broward

 A. Extra  board  operators  assigned regular  runs  shall be  treated  as the  regular
 operators and shall  receive one  and one-half (1-1/2)  times the regular rate  of pay
 after the assigned runs in accordance with Article 22, Section 3. Standby time will be
 computed as time worked for overtime on a daily basis.

 B. The extra board employee who works  after 9:00 p.m. shall not be required to report
 before 6:00 a.m.  the following  day provided s/he  advised the dispatcher  of his/her
 intentions upon completion of his/her day.

 Section 2: The  Employer and Union shall promulgate such rules  and regulations as may
 be necessary for the efficient, equitable operation of the extra board. Such rules and
 regulations shall be  posted in  the operators' room and  may be changed from  time to
 time by mutual agreement.

 Section 3: Extra board operators will  have preference to all overtime work, except on
 their day off, sequence as follows:

 A. Extra board operators working;

 B. Operators completing regular runs will be given preference to continue regular run;

 C. Operators on their day off;

 D. Regular operators working;

 E. Extra board operators on a hold down will be treated as a regular operator.

 F. All overtime  at a work site  will be performed by employees  assigned to that work
 site.

 G. All overtime assignments will be prioritized according to the above guidelines only
 when the  operators  to be  assigned  will be  able to  complete  the entire  overtime
 assignment and not  violate the State  Regulations governing maximum number  of hours,
 etc.

 Operators working on their  day off after having  completed a regular run  will not be
 entitled to additional work if regular operators working are available.

 H. No Operator shall  work more than six days in any work  week (Sunday thru Saturday)
 unless  all other  signed  up  Operators eligible  to  work  have been  assigned.  RDO
 Operators can sign for  either regular extra board  or special events board  NOT BOTH.
 Should an RDO operator sign both boards, his/her name will be removed from the special
 events board by  the dispatcher. Any operator  signing for overtime will  provide only
 one phone number to be contacted by the dispatcher.

 Any Operator  signing  to work  his  or her  seventh day,  shall  write "seventh  day:
 following his/her name on the RDO sign up sheet for that day. Before a seventh day RDO
 Operator is assigned work  on his or her regular day off, all  other RDO Operators who
 have already worked and  who have signed for additional work, will  be used. They must
 also be eligible for the particular overtime assignment.

 Section 4: Extra operators will take two (2) days off in seven (7) and will be allowed
 to choose their days off according to their seniority.

 Section 5:  No piece of work  with less than five  (5) days worked other  than regular
 posted runs will be classified as a hold down.

 A. Hold downs will be posted on  Fridays before they are to be bid the following week.

Page 18

 No additions can be made after 10:00  a.m. on the following Wednesday. All posted hold
 downs must be bid by extra operators  no later than 8:00 a.m., on Friday preceding the
 effective date of the hold down assignments and the assignments will be posted by 2:00
 p.m. on that same Friday.

ATU1267_Broward

 B. Hold downs that  are not chosen are to be assigned to  junior extra board operators
 who have no assignment  according to seniority. Unbid  hold downs will be  assigned in
 seniority order  to the Extra  Board Operators (with  no assignments)in  the seniority
 order of the “missing” Operator, regardless of the reason they are out.

 C. Extra board  operators assigned a hold  down because of a lack  of seniority may at
 their option give the run up if  operators with less seniority are placed on the extra
 board.

 Section 6:  Extra operators  will be rotated  on a daily  basis and positioned  on the
 board in the following manner:

 A. Operators working  less than  eight (8) hours who  had no opportunity to  work that
 amount of time.

 B. Operators returning to work after their last regular day off.

 C. Operators returning to work after an excused day off.

 D. Operators having caught eight (8) hours work, having a miss out or late report.

 E. Operators returning to work from suspension.

 F. Operators returning to work after sick leave.

 G. Operators returning to work from Worker's Compensation.

 H. Operators returning to work from a hold down.

 I. Operators returning to work from vacation by seniority.

 Section 7: In  the event that an extra board operator's position  is bumped by another
 operator  during the  course  of  a  pick, the  extra  board  operator will  have  the
 opportunity to bump any operator with less seniority on a regular run.

 Section 8:

 A. No piece work will be assigned with a spread time of more than fourteen (14) hours,
 unless with the consent  of the Operator. Scheduled report time  will be considered as
 the beginning of spread time.

 B. The regular rate  of pay will be  paid for all time in excess of  two and one- half
 (2-1/2) hours intervening time  between assigned piecework or  assigned a.m. piecework
 and a regular run.

 C. Regular runs  will not  be assigned with  a spread time  of more than  sixteen (16)
 hours  unless with  the  consent  of  the  Operator.  Scheduled  report time  will  be
 considered as the beginning of spread time.

 D. No intervening spread time will be  paid when an Operator is assigned a regular run
 from standby, or assigned additional work after completing a regular run.

 E. Extra Operators  will not  be assigned additional  work after having  completed ten
 (10) consecutive hours of work unless it is with the Operator's consent.

 F. A change  of assignment  may be given  to an Extra  Board Operator if  necessary to
 continue uninterrupted scheduled service.  The Operator will not be  given work with a
 later starting  time  than his/her  original run,  unless  s/he consents  and will  be
 guaranteed no less than the pay hours of the original assignment.

Page 19

 G. Extra Board  Operators will be given  preference by seniority, for  additional work
 after completing their original  assignment. Operators must indicate  their desire for
 additional work by signing the overtime board  for Extra Board Operators. If there are
 no Operators available  for additional work who  have signed the overtime  board, then
 the work will be assigned to the Operator of Junior Seniority.

ATU1267_Broward

 H. Extra  Board Operators  will be  guaranteed a minimum  of two (2)  hours pay  for a
 scheduled report unless assigned  work is given prior  to the two (2)  hours, in which
 case  s/he   will   be   paid  for   actual  standby   time   prior  to   assignments.

 I. Piecework, other than school trippers due to school traffic, will be posted for bid
 by regular Operators on  a seniority basis. Piecework not bid will  be worked from the
 Extra Board.

 J. Extra Board Operators  having completed their assigned duties  as required in their
 five (5) day workweek will be paid time and one-half their regular rate of pay for all
 hours worked on their off days.

 K. Extra Board Operators will be given  the minimum guarantee of hours pay per week as
 that provided in regular runs for regular Operators. All pay will be included.

 L. Holiday pay will  not be used on  Extra Board Operators' guarantees  if it falls on
 his/her regular work day, unless excused.

 Section 9: FLEX Extra Board

 A. Three positions can be on the "FLEX" Extra Board from each facility.

 B. Assignments away from  an operator's base facility will be for  one week or longer,
 if necessary.

 C. Overall seniority will  prevail for assigning overtime.  "FLEX" operators will sign
 for overtime only at the facility they are assigned for the week.

 D. Days off for "FLEX" Extra Board positions will be assigned at the pick.

 E. Management will decide  how many "FLEX" Extra  Board positions will be  assigned at
 each facility each week and will post by 4:00 p.m. Friday.

 F. If all  three positions  are not assigned  to another facility, assignment  will be
 from the bottom of the Seniority list and return-to-base facility will be from the top
 of the seniority list.

 G. "FLEX" Extra Board cannot bid or be assigned hold downs.

 H. "FLEX"  Extra Board  operators assigned  to another facility  away from  their pick
 facility will be paid  thirty (30) minutes travel  time each day assigned  and will be
 considered as time worked.

 I. Whenever any member of members of  the FLEX Board change location (either to his or
 her chosen facility or the reassigned facility), they will be

 placed (on the first day of that  new assignment) into rotation as if returning from a
 hold down ahead of  regular Extra Board Operators  returning from vacation. Otherwise,
 the FLEX Board Operator will be normally rotated on the regular Extra Board.

 J. All administrative records  for "FLEX" Extra Board operators will  be kept at their
 base facility,  except  for initial  pay  records which  will be  kept  at the  "away"
 facility.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 24
 SELECTION AND ASSIGNMENT OF RUNS

Page 20

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 1: There will be a general selection and assignment of regular runs once every
 four (4) months and at such other  times as the Employer may deem it necessary. During
 the pick  for  January, Operators  who pick  a  run, simultaneously  select their  job
 location for the  following twelve  (12) months. All  regular runs, including  any new
 schedules or changes in schedule, shall be posted at the time of the general selection
 and assignment of regular  runs as set forth above. Any regular  runs not picked shall
 be assigned to  the extra board junior  operators in accordance with  their seniority.
 All operators not selecting a run or assigned in accordance with their seniority shall
 be placed  on  the  extra board.  If  no  extra board  slots  are  available then  the
 Superintendent or adjutant, along with the Union  official working the pick, will make
 the determination as to  what run the operator will be assigned,  and that choice will
 be the operator's assignment for the duration of the pick.

 Section 2: Whenever a selection and  assignment of regular runs has been determined in
 accordance with the  provisions of Section 1  of this Article, all  regularly assigned
 runs together with a seniority list of operators shall be posted on the bulletin board
 for the  selection of  runs and  days off  of such  runs as may  be determined  by the
 Employer and  posted on  the bulletin  board for  selection of  runs and  days off  in
 accordance with seniority. Except in an emergency,  the regular runs will be posted on
 the  bulletin board  from  Thursday  through Sunday  on  the  fourth week  before  the
 effective date  thereof  so that  the operators  may familiarize  themselves with  the
 changes in runs. The  selection of runs will take place from  Monday through Friday of
 the two (2) succeeding  weeks, and the assignments will be posted  for one week before
 the new schedule goes into effect. The  period between posting and effective date will
 be twenty-five (25) days.

 A. Should it become necessary to have a run assignment selection where changes of runs
 has effect at only one facility, then only that facility will pick. The posting of the
 pick and the changes will be posted a minimum of four (4) days before the first day of
 the selection  process. The  effective date  of the  new run  assignment would  be the
 second  Sunday at  the  conclusion  of  the  selection  process. The  single  facility
 selection shall in no way alter the provisions of Section 1 of this Article.

 Section 3:  The Scheduling  Superintendent or the  appointed adjutant shall  have full
 charge of  the selection  of runs  with regard  to runs, routes  and picking  order. A
 designated Union official shall be responsible for conducting and posting the run pick
 and management will provide assistance as needed.

 Section 4: If a pick of  runs is posted while an operator is on  leave or vacation and
 the operator was properly  notified of the date of the pick,  and given an opportunity
 to leave a written choice of runs, and failed to do so, then the provisions of Section
 1 of this Article  shall apply. Proper notification  of a pick date  shall be a letter
 posted on the bulletin board,  and the date on the letter shall be  the date of proper
 notification. If an operator  on leave or vacation was not  properly notified and s/he
 had no opportunity to  leave a choice of runs, such operator may  be assigned the same
 run as s/he presently has if it is still open, or a run as close as possible to his or
 her present  work  schedule and  days off.  Upon returning  to work  the operator,  if
 dissatisfied at  the choice  made may,  at his or  her option be  placed on  the Extra
 Board, or may  displace an  operator with lesser  seniority. Any vacancy  thus created
 will be placed for bid.

 Any operator who is on extended sick leave or compensation and presents doctor's lines
 stating that such operator  will return to his/her assigned  duties within thirty (30)
 calendar days from the  effective date of the  pick, will be allowed to  pick a run of
 his/her choice only one time  during a rolling year. The run will be  worked as a hold
 down by the  Extra Board  until the return of  the regular operator within  the thirty
 (30) day period. If  by the end of  the described thirty (30)  day period the operator
 fails to  return to  work, the  run then  becomes the  assignment of  the Extra  Board
 operator working that run as a hold  down for the duration of the pick. Upon return of
 the operator who had  originally bid the run,  s/he will be placed  on the Extra Board
 for the  duration of  the pick.  Any operator  on sick leave  or compensation  and the
 determination is made by the operator with  participation of management and the Union,
 that such operator will not be physically able to return to his or her assigned duties
 within thirty (30) calendar days from the effective date of the pick will be placed on

Page 21

 the Extra Board until the next general selection of runs.

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 5:  There shall  be a bump  down pick if  runs are  altered which result  in a
 change of pay  time of  more than ten  (10) minutes per day,  a change in route,  or a
 change in  days off,  except if  such occurs  less than  thirty (30)  days prior  to a
 general pick.  In the  event that  the Employer  considers any  changes in  routing or
 scheduling, the Union will be notified.

 Section 6 : After  the runs  have been  selected and assigned  in accordance  with the
 provisions of this Article,  exchange of runs shall  not be permitted except  with the
 approval of the Employer  and with the participation of  a union representative. When,
 in the  judgment of  the Employer,  an operator  is not capable  of operating  the run
 selected by him or her, the County  may reassign him or her to a run  s/he may be able
 to operate. In such  an event, however, the Employer will discuss  the matter with the
 representative of the Union.

 Section 7: When a general selection  and assignment of regular runs is to be held, the
 Union will be provided a copy  of all runs and days off as of  the date the assignment
 is posted. Any complaint  or discussion of the  runs by the Union  must be made within
 seven (7) days thereafter.

 Section 8 : Any  operator holding  a regular  run who reports  as scheduled  in proper
 attire and  in fit  physical condition  to work,  but whose run  has been  canceled or
 assigned in error shall be paid in  full. If required to work thereafter, the operator
 shall be paid time and one-half for  that work performed on the same day. The operator
 will be given his/her run. In the  event the bus has not left the garage, the operator
 will be placed on the bus prior  to leaving. The extra operator or regular operator on
 his/her day off  who was  assigned the regular  employee's run will be  guaranteed pay
 equal to that which s/he would have  earned had s/he worked the assigned run. However,
 the extra or regular operator on his/her day off may be required to stand by for other
 work that may become available.

 Section 9: At each  general selection and assignment of  runs, vehicle numbers (except
 p.m. pullouts from the  garage), will be identified for each run  and will remain with
 the run unless unforseen circumstances or vehicle maintenance requires a change.

 Section 10: A Union designated  official may sit in on all make-up of  runs at no cost
 to the Employer.

 Section 11: Management reserves  the right to schedule all or any part  of a route out
 of either work site i.e. Copans Road or Ravenswood Road.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 25
 TIME ALLOWANCES

 Section 1: All operators when putting a coach into service from the garage (outside of
 reliefs) shall receive a preparatory time allowance of fifteen (15) minutes. Operators
 making a road  relief at  their regular scheduled  hours of their  platform assignment
 shall receive a preparatory  time allowance of ten (10) minutes.  Operators who make a
 second road relief during the day shall  not be entitled to any additional preparatory
 time for that relief.  The preparatory time as provided herein  is for duties required
 to perform their scheduled work assignment.

 Section 2:  All employees  shall be guaranteed  thirty (30) minutes at  the employee's
 applicable rate  of pay  for fully,  properly, and  correctly making  out accident  or
 unusual occurrence reports.  Employees will  give a full  report to the  Supervisor of
 Accident Reporting and will be assisted as needed in making such report.

 Section 3: In the event an employee is required to attend court as a witness on behalf
 of the Employer,  the employee  so required to attend  court shall be paid  at his/her
 regular straight  hourly rate  of pay  for his/her  assigned day's  work, provided  he
 presents himself for work if excused from court prior to 2:00 p.m.

Page 22

ATU1267_Broward

 If an employee is required  to attend court as a witness on behalf  of the Employer on
 his/her day off, he will be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours or actual time spent
 at the employee's regular hourly rate of pay.

 Section 4:  All regular  operators shall receive  seventy-five (75) cents per  hour in
 addition to  their  regular straight  time hourly  rate of  pay when  required by  the
 Employer to break in and instruct a student operator.

 Section 5: Neither  the time allowance nor  the pay provisions contained  in the above
 Sections, excluding report time,  shall be used in computing overtime,  and at no time
 and under no circumstances shall employees be paid at the overtime rate of pay.

 Section 6:  Effective for  the Fall pick  of 1997 and  thereafter, all work  days will
 start and  stop  at  the garage.  Relief  points  will be  determined  by the  County.
 Transportation and/or vehicles will be provided by  the County. Travel time and report
 time will be used in the construction  of runs and in time accumulated for the purpose
 of calculating  overtime. Until  the Fall  97 pick  travel time will  be paid  for all
 reliefs away from the garage, using the following table:

 To and From Ravenswood Road

 Broward Terminal               15 minutes
 Young Circle                   20 minutes
 Dania & Federal                10 minutes
 Broward Mall                   45 minutes
 Oakland & Andrews              25 minutes
 Sunrise & Andrews              20 minutes
 Lauderhill Mall                45 minutes
 Taft Shopping Center           45 minutes
 Hollywood Fashion Center       15 minutes
 Pompano Fashion Square*        30 minutes

 * With transportation provided per Section 8 of this Article.

 To and From Copans Road

 Pompano Fashion Square         10 minutes
 Margate                        10 minutes
 Sunshine Plaza                 20 minutes
 Lakes Mall                     30 minutes
 Lauderhill Mall                40 minutes
 First Street and Flagler       25 minutes
 Sample and University          35 minutes
 Coral Square Mall              30 minutes

 Operators traveling to and from the garages  will be paid travel time according to the
 above schedule.  Operators traveling between  relief points will  be paid  travel time
 equal to the  scheduled bus  travel time between  the two relief points.  Any operator
 having to travel more than once during his/her work shift will be paid travel time for
 each relief according to the above schedule.

 Section 7:  Any relief  points created during the  course of this Agreement  will have
 their travel times negotiated at that time.

 Section 8:

 A. One crew vehicle will be available for operators from each worksite for the purpose
 of transporting operators, relieving  and being relieved, away  from the terminal from
 the defined relief point set forth in Section 6 above.

 B. The  crew vehicles  will be operated  by "Crew Vehicle  Operators" as  scheduled by
 management. If a Crew  Vehicle Operator is not available, management  has the right to
 assign "light duty"  operators to  drive the van.  If not assigned  to a  "light duty"
 operator, the  van work  will fall  to the Extra  Board either as  hold down  or daily

Page 23

 assignment. Crew vehicle operators may sign for  overtime subject to working a maximum
 of two times  a month if  there is not "light  duty" operator or Extra  Board operator
 available.

ATU1267_Broward

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 26
 WAGES

 Section 1: The wage rate for  all unit employees employed at date of execution of this
 contract will be adjusted as shown on wage rate schedule in Section 6.

 Section 2: Pay day will be on a bi-weekly basis.

 Section 3:  When an error occurs  in an employee's regular  pay which causes it  to be
 short and said error  occurred on the part of the Employer of  Ten Dollars ($10.00) or
 more, a check correcting the error will be issued within three (3) working days of the
 time the error is brought to the  attention of the Employer. If overpaid, the pay back
 will be agreed to by the employee/employer and the Union.

 Section 4 : The  Employer agrees  not to hold  any employee's pay  for the  purpose of
 requiring the employee to meet with supervision.

 Section 5: Employees performing specialized work  as machinist or electronics/fare box
 technicians will  have that  title added  to their pay  classification and  their work
 specialty will be bid as separate classification.

 Section 6:  Effective the  first full pay  period of December  1999, all  current unit
 employees, employed  in  a bargaining  unit position  prior  to October  1, 1998  will
 receive one-time $150 (less appropriate payroll taxes)  lump sum payment (not included
 in the  base rate).  Effective the  first full  pay period of  October 1999,  all unit
 employees (except  trainees) will  receive a  fifty cent  (50¢) per  hour increase  as
 reflected in the Wage Rate Schedule below :

 Wage Rate Schedule

 A. Operators

 I. Operator Trainee --- $ 7.68

 II. Operators

 1st 10 months after training        $12.73
 Next 10 months                      $13.45
 Next 10 months                      $14.17
 Next 10 months                      $14.89
 Next 10 months                      $15.61

 Part-Time Operators

 1st year after training            $12.73
 Next 20 months                     $13.45
 Next 20 months                     $14.17
 Next 20 months                     $14.89
 Next 20 months                     $15.61

 IV. Thereafter Rates All Operators

 **

 "Thereafter Step" --- $ 17.10

 V. Crew Vehicle --- $ 15.36

Page 24

 Operators employed prior to  October 1, 1994, will receive an  additional 10¢ per hour
 increase after completion  of 5,  10, and 15,  years of continuous  service. Effective
 October  1, 1994,  Operators  employed  prior to  October  1,  1994, will  receive  an
 additional 10¢ per  hour increase after completion  of 20 years of  continuous service
 and will continue to receive the 5 year increase as described above.

ATU1267_Broward

 Operators hired on or  after October 1, 1994, will receive an  additional 10¢ per hour
 increase after completion of 10, 15, and 20 years of continuous service.

 Operators moving from  part-time to from full-time  or full-time to part-time  will be
 give credit for months of service in terms of full-time or part-time

 equivalents, regardless  of probationary  status. This determination  is based  on the
 number of  months worked  since the  operator's hire  date, appointment  date or  last
 scheduled wage rate change.

 B. Maintenance

 I. Utilities                 $16.06

 Utilities employees will receive an additional 10¢  per hour increase after completion
 of 10,  and  15 years  of continuous  service.  Effective October  1, 1994,  Utilities
 employees will  receive an  additional 10¢  per hour increase  after completion  of 20
 years of continuous service.

 II. Storekeepers

 1st Year                $12.92
 2nd Year                $13.63
 3rd Year                $14.34
 4th Year                $15.05
 5th Year                $15.76

 "Thereafter Step" --- $ 17.21

 Storekeepers will receive an additional 10¢ per  hour increase after completion of 10,
 15, and 20 years of continuous service.

 Coach Service Attendants

 1st Year                 $10.77
 2nd Year                 $11.47
 3rd Year                 $12.17
 4th Year                 $12.87
 5th Year                 $13.57

 "Thereafter Step" $ 14.89

 Coach Service  Attendants  will  receive an  additional 10¢  per  hour increase  after
 completion of 10 and 15 years of  continuous service. Effective October 1, 1994, Coach
 Service Attendants employees  will receive an  additional 10¢ per hour  increase after
 completion of 20 years of continuous service.

 III. Mechanics

 1st Year                 $13.99
 2nd Year                 $14.52
 3rd Year                 $15.05
 4th Year                 $15.58
 5th Year                 $16.11
 6th Year                 $14.64
 7th Year                 $17.17

 b. "Thereafter Step" --- $ 18.51

Page 25

 Mechanic Apprentice*

ATU1267_Broward

 Starting Rate                      $11.29
 1st Section completion             $11.97
 2nd Section completion             $12.64
 3rd Section completion             $13.32

 Upon successful completion  of Mechanic Apprentice  program the employee moves  to the
 1st Year Mechanic rate.

 *Rates based on 80%, 85%,  90% and 95% of Mechanic 1st Year Rate.  If a current County
 employee becomes a  Mechanic Apprentice  and has a  higher pay rate than  the Starting
 Rate, that employee's salary is redlined until such time as his/her pay rate is in the
 salary range for Mechanic Apprentice.

 Mechanics will receive an additional 10¢ per hour increase after completion of 10, 15,
 and 20 years of continuous service.

 * Completion  of  the specified  number of  years  worked in  a grade  will qualify  a
 mechanic, storekeeper,  or coach/service  attendant for promotion  to the  next grade.
 Increases in  wage  rates will  become effective  at  the first  pay period  following
 completion of the  years worked  in grade. Unexcused  absences will not be  counted in
 computing time in grade.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 27
 UNIFORMS

 Section 1:  All operators  shall be required  to wear uniforms  in good  condition (as
 approved by the supervisor) while on duty in accordance with the specifications of the
 Employer.

 Section 2 : All  drivers with  over one  (1) year  of service  will receive  an annual
 voucher  of  One  Hundred  and  Seventy-five  Dollars ($175.00)  for  the  purpose  of
 purchasing uniforms as required by the Employer.  All operators must use their uniform
 vouchers within nine  (9) months  of the date  that the vouchers are  available. After
 this time all vouchers will be void.

 Section 3 :  Probationary  drivers shall  receive the  following  upon the  successful
 completion of training: four (4) shirts, three  (3) pair of pants, one (1) jacket, one
 (1) belt, one (1) punch  holder, one (1) cap, one (1) pair of  shoes, one (1) sweater,
 and three (3)  pair of  socks. Upon reaching  their first anniversary date,  they will
 accrue Sixteen Dollars  and Sixty-Six Cents  ($16.66) per month payable  the following
 October 1st.

 Section 4: The County will make every effort to secure no less than three (3) bids for
 the purchase of operators' uniforms.

 Section 5 : The  County will  make every  effort to secure  a discounted  dry cleaning
 service for the maintenance of uniforms.

 Section  6 :  To  qualify  for  the  uniform  voucher,  the  employee  must  meet  the
 qualifications established for vacation benefits (in Article 16, Section 5).

 Section 7 : Maintenance  Section Unit employees  will be provided  with seven  sets of
 clean clothing  each  week for  use while  on  duty. Additionally,  the Division  will
 purchase and issue  to each  non-probationary Maintenance Section Unit  employee every
 other year, either one work jacket or cover-all and seven T-shirts.

 Section 8: Uniform  vouchers shall contain the cost of each  item. Commencing with the
 October 1, 1997, voucher,  leisure pullover shirts shall  be a part of  the Operator's
 Uniform Code and can be purchased with the voucher.

Page 26

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

ATU1267_Broward

 ARTICLE 28
 EMERGENCY WORKING CONDITIONS

 Section 1: Due  to conditions beyond the control of the  Employer, such as hurricanes,
 windstorms and tornados:

 A. Any operator pulling  a regular run who is ordered by  the Employer's management to
 bring his/her  bus  to the  garage prior  to  completing the  run, shall  nevertheless
 receive pay  for the  hours of  the run  at straight time,  or overtime,  whichever is
 applicable.

 B. Any maintenance employees who are scheduled  to work, who are advised by management
 not to report to  work or sent home  in the middle of a shift, will  suffer no loss of
 pay. The payroll voucher  shall show normal hours; however, such  hours will not count
 toward hours worked for computing overtime.

 Section 2: Any operator making a request report outside his/her regular work schedule,
 including charters, shall be paid time and  one-half (1-1/2) their regular rate of pay
 with a minimum of four (4) hours pay guaranteed, except as provided for in Article 22.

 Section 3: Any operator who has  been assigned work for his/her day off, and is called
 after 8 p.m.  the preceding day and  is told not to  report, will be credited  for two
 hours as time worked.

 Section 4:  The Employer reserves  the right to assign  a supervisor to operate  a bus
 when no  on-site operator  is available  and the  Employer will  make every  effort to
 relieve the supervisor with a bus operator as soon as possible.

 Section 5 : Any  operator authorized  to make  an exchange  of his/her  vehicle for  a
 vehicle of another operator shall receive an additional minimum thirty (30) minutes of
 compensation at the employees' basic rate of pay.

 Section 6:  Employees expressing a  desire for a work  location during a pick  will be
 assigned to a comparable  vacancy if available between  picks. A vacancy is  deemed to
 exist when the County seeks to fill a budgeted position.

 Section 7 :  In the  event  the marketing  section utilizes  a  bus for  demonstration
 purposes and transports  non-employee passengers  on public roadways, current  or past
 operators of the  month, operators  of the year,  or rodeo champions will  operate the
 bus.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 29
 MAINTENANCE ASSIGNMENT OF WORK

 Section 1 : At  such times  as the  Employer deems  necessary, it  will determine  and
 schedule the number of maintenance employees needed  in each classification on each of
 its work  shifts, including  the days  off of each  of its work  shifts and  post such
 information on  the  bulletin board.  A union  representative may  participate in  the
 construction of maintenance work schedules.

 Section  2 :  Maintenance  employees  will  choose  their  work  shifts,  primary  job
 assignment,  and  days  off  in  accordance  with their  seniority  within  their  job
 classification at  least  every  six (6)  months.  During the  pick  for January,  the
 employee will simultaneously select his/her job location for the following twelve (12)
 months unless  a substantive  change occurs  within the year  entered by  the division
 deviating from the  terms of  the prior January  pick which determined  the employees'
 work  location for  the  subsequent  year.  In such  event,  a  new general  pick  for
 maintenance employees  will  be  posted as  provided for  herein.  When a  Maintenance
 employee is out on approved leave due to illness or injury or on Workers' compensation

Page 27

 for more than thirty calendar (30) days, and with agreement between management and the
 Union, a bump  down pick within  that shift (job and  days off) shall occur.  The bump
 down pick will remain in effect until the employee returns to work, or a general pick,
 whichever occurs first.

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 3: It is general policy of the Employer to, in accordance with its maintenance
 needs, use  its  maintenance  employees for  work  for which  they  may be  qualified,
 reserving to  the  Employer  the right  to  judge qualifications  and  ability of  the
 employee,  and to  assign  such  employee  to such  work  as  it may  deem  necessary.
 Maintenance employees will perform  all work assignments to the  best of their ability
 and the Employer will make possible all training needed as it deems necessary for them
 to perform their assignments well and efficiently.

 Section 4:  Maintenance will  provide a minimum  of 21 primary  job assignments.  If a
 license or certificate is required by State or Federal law, to perform certain primary
 jobs, the  Mechanic must  hold the  valid license or  certificate before  picking such
 primary jobs.  Any such  required license  or certificate  must be  maintained by  the
 Mechanic to continue working that primary job assignment for the duration of the pick.
 Maintenance employees who  choose a primary job  assignment will have first  choice to
 receive training unless already  trained in that area within the  last two years prior
 to the date training  is offered. However, if  the County acquires new  equipment with
 changes that require  different training,  maintenance employees who choose  a primary
 job assignment would still have first choice to receive training regardless of whether
 they have been  trained within  the last two  years. Management will discuss  with the
 Union, the employees who  request training. However, management  reserves the right to
 determine and select those employees for training in that primary job assignment.

 Section 5 :  According to  seniority, Maintenance  employees will  have preference  of
 choosing an  open job,  and shift,  at another job  site over new  hires in  their job
 classification once new hires probation is completed. Only the senior employee will be
 allowed to exchange the posted bid.

 Section 6 :  Maintenance  employees may  exchange shifts,  with  another employee,  on
 limited occasions, with prior approval of the Maintenance Superintendent.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 30
 MAINTENANCE OVERTIME

 Section 1:  For the  purpose of computing  overtime, hours actually  worked, scheduled
 holidays, and  approved scheduled vacations  shall be considered  as time  worked. All
 other times are excluded, including sick leave and authorized leaves of absence.

 A.  Effective thirty  (30)  days  from  the  signing  of this  Agreement,  maintenance
 employees who work a designated holiday will receive holiday pay as defined in Article
 18, Section 2 or may request another  day off with pay, in lieu of the holiday pay, at
 a time agreed upon by his/her Supervisor.  In addition, maintenance employees who have
 a designated holiday fall  on his/her scheduled vacation  day or regular day  off, may
 request another day off with pay, in lieu of the holiday pay, at a time agreed upon by
 his/her supervisor. This  will occur  provided they work  a minimum of four  (4) hours
 during their  scheduled  workday immediately  preceding or  following their  scheduled
 vacation time or  regular day  off, unless excused  by the employer  or if  a doctor's
 certificate is provided. The alternate day off  must be requested prior to working the
 holiday, must be approved  by the supervisor and shall be  taken within one-year after
 the holiday. Maintenance employees shall have rotating  two (2) banked holidays, i.e.,
 as one holiday is used, it can  be replaced with another holiday, but no more than two
 (2) remain in bank at any given time.

 Section 2: Overtime  will be paid to  maintenance employees after they  have completed
 forty (40)  hours  worked, as  defined in  this Agreement.  All maintenance  employees
 covered by this Agreement  shall be paid at  the rate of one and  one-half (1 ½) times
 their regular straight time  hourly rate for all hours worked in  excess of forty (40)
 hours.

Page 28

 Section 3 :  An  overtime board  for  each  work site  shall  be  established for  the
 Maintenance Department,  as  outlined herein.  Such board  shall provide,  as much  as
 possible,  for  the   equal  distribution   of  overtime  insofar  as   possible  with
 qualifications being equal.

ATU1267_Broward

 OVERTIME:

 A. Three (3) list to maintain

      1. Mechanic
      2. CSA
      3. Storekeeper

 B. Sign-up Sheet

      1. The list to be maintained by seniority order
      2. List to be renewed every three months
      3. List to be posted for sign-up 30 days before final posting

 C. Mechanic List

        1. Only mechanics can sign
        2. Mechanic will be called for overtime by seniority and the list will continue
           in rotation by seniority

 D. CSA List

        1. 1. A mechanic can sign
        2. Mechanic would only be called if the CSA List has been exhausted
        3. If CSA accepts all overtime offered in his or her classification, the
           rotation would continue by seniority and would not drop into the mechanic’s
           portion of the overtime list.
        4. If the CSA list is exhausted, then the selection to fill the open position
           would fall into the mechanic portion of that list until the position is
           filled. If CSA decline to work overtime, then the next available mechanic on
           the affected overtime list would be asked to work.
        5. CSAs would have first choice in his or her classification before a mechanic
           is asked to fill that classification open work.
        6. Storekeeper, if signs, would be last to be offered overtime for CSA work.

 E. Storekeeper List

        1. A mechanic can sign
        2. Mechanic would only be called if the Storekeeper List has been exhausted
        3. If Storekeeper accepts all overtime offered in his or her classification the
           rotation would continue by seniority and would not drop into the mechanic’s
           portion of the overtime list.
        4. If the Storekeeper list is exhausted then the selection to fill the open
           position would fall into the mechanic portion of that list until the
           position is filled. If Storekeeper decline to work overtime then the next
           available mechanic on the affected overtime list would be asked to work.
        5. Storekeepers would have first choice in his or her classification before a
           mechanic is asked to fill that classification open work.

 F. Call Time/Work Provision

        1. If no answer or person is working, it will be noted next to name on overtime
           sheet
        2. If a voice mail or answering machine picks up, a response time of 10 minutes
           will be allowed. If the person does not respond within the proper time
           period NRC will be noted for that day. NRC = “No Return Call.”
        3. When an employee is asked to work overtime, whether or not they accept or
           decline, do not return call (NRC) or they can’t work because the offer is
           made during his or her regular shift, the overtime will continue in sequence

Page 29

           until the list is exhausted.

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 4: When overtime is available outside the scope of the regular overtime board,
 i.e. inventory, a sign up sheet will be posted and the same procedure will be followed
 as if it was a Holiday Pick.

 Section 5: The Employer agrees that  there will be no change in work shifts to prevent
 the payment  of overtime;  however, the  Employer reserves  the right  to establish  a
 relief shift.  The  Employer may  change  the work  shift to  prevent  the payment  of
 overtime for training purposes only. If overtime is needed to cover a particular night
 shift,  mechanics  who  would  normally  work  that shift  will  have  preference,  by
 seniority, to work before an RDO person.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 31
 DEFINITIONS OF CLASSIFICATIONS

                                 MAINTENANCE EMPLOYEES

 Section  1 :  Mechanics  are  maintenance  employees   who  are  capable  of  and  can
 satisfactorily make  any and  all repairs,  either major  or minor,  and service  such
 vehicles or equipment or units thereof as  may be assigned by the Employer for service
 or repair. Each mechanic  must be able to perform such work in  a reasonable length of
 time,  in a  workmanlike  manner,  and  with  a  minimum  amount of  supervision  when
 necessary. Mechanics, upon providing documentation of the certification(s) required by
 State and/or Federal  government to work on  air conditioning, will receive  an annual
 certification pay of $200 as described in this Section:

 A. The parties  agree the certification  pay will be a  lump sum not reflected  in the
 Mechanic's base rate of pay for the purposes of calculating overtime.

 B. Mechanics  who, have  not yet receive  certification pay for  1996 and  who provide
 documentation that they hold the appropriate certification as of October 1, 1996, will
 receive the  $200 certification  pay within thirty  (30) days of  the signing  of this
 Agreement (less mandatory payroll deductions).

 C.  Mechanics who  provide  documentation  that  they  have obtained  the  appropriate
 certification subsequent to October  1, 1996 will receive  the certification pay (less
 mandatory payroll  deductions) pro-rated based  on the remaining  number of  months in
 that fiscal year.

 D. If in the  future Broward County Transit should make  available 608 training, those
 employees who participate will  not be eligible for annual  certification pay for that
 year.

 Following  the initial  receipt  of  certification  pay,  Mechanics who  maintain  the
 required certification  will  receive  the certification  pay  annually thereafter  in
 October.

 Section 2: Mechanic Apprentices are maintenance employees who are hired and trained as
 Transit Mechanics by the Transit Maintenance Instructor.

 A. Areas of instruction will be divided into four (4) sections, and are as follows:

        1. Section I: Inspection, Preventative Maintenance - PM's and Body.
        2. Section II: Electrical and Air Systems - Electrical Diagrams: Charging,
           Starting Systems, Air Controls, Suspension Brakes.
        3. Section III: Power Train - Troubleshooting, Transmissions, Pressure Tests,
           Drive Shaft, Axle.
        4. Power Plant: Troubleshooting, Cooling Systems, Lube System, Fuel System.

 B. Each area  of instruction will  last four (4) to  six (6) months, depending  on the
 trainee's ability and management's review and test results.

Page 30

ATU1267_Broward

 C. Apprentices  will have  a full  set of  Mechanic's Tools  and will  receive a  tool
 allowance in accordance with Article 32, Section 5.

 D. The intended training period is two years or less, however, the training period can
 be extended but will not exceed two and one-half years.

        1. If the trainee lacks ability, based on bi-weekly evaluations, to continue as
           a Mechanic Apprentice, s/he may be released from the Apprentice Program at
           any time during the training period.
        2. Apprentices are permitted to repeat no more than one section during his/her
           training program as described in A. above.
        3. Apprentices will not "pick" as a mechanic while in training.

 E. Apprentices do not earn unit seniority, except that "date of employment", as define
 in the Article 15,  will be used to calculate vacation  eligibility in accordance with
 Article 16.

 F. Apprentices will not work overtime or holidays.

 G. In the absence of a training instructor, if necessary, a mechanic will be assigned,
 in writing  by the  Superintendent, to  monitor the apprentice  and the  mechanic will
 receive an additional thirty (30) cents per hour to his/her base rate of pay.

 Section 3 :  Utility workers  are maintenance  employees who  are capable  of and  can
 satisfactorily perform, in  a workmanlike manner, any  type of service labor  such as,
 but  not limited  to  hostling,  gassing, oiling  and  cleaning  of such  vehicles  or
 equipment or units thereof as may be  assigned by the Employer for services, including
 closing windows and the maintenance of building and grounds.

 Section 4: Coach  Service Attendants are maintenance employees who  are capable of and
 can satisfactorily perform,  in a workmanlike manner,  any type of service  labor such
 as, but not  limited to,  hostling, gassing, oiling  and cleaning of such  vehicles or
 equipment as may  be assigned by the  Employer including the maintenance  of buildings
 and grounds.

 Section 5: Storekeepers are employees whose duties are:

      A. To receive shipments of supplies, parts and tools;
      B. To place all supplies, parts and tools in their designated locations;
      C. To issue supplies, parts and tools to authorized persons on request; and
      D. To develop and maintain necessary records of storeroom activities as directed.

 Section 6: On the specified holidays  and if Sunday schedule is worked, mechanics will
 choose by seniority to  work even though it is an employee's scheduled  day off in the
 following manner: Maintenance employees from each regularly  scheduled work shift will
 have first choice of working specified holiday on their own picked shift. In the event
 there are no volunteers  to work on said picked shift, an  employee from another shift
 may switch. If there are no volunteers  at all, maintenance employees will be assigned
 to work their own picked shift in reverse seniority.

 Section 7: No management personnel will replace unit employees except for instruction,
 special work or emergencies.

 Section 8: Each shop employee shall  be responsible for the condition of his/her tools
 and work area. Work areas shall be clean and tools properly stored.

 Section 9: Each employee must punch his/her own time card at the start of his/her work
 day, at the end of his/her shift and on every occasion the employee leaves and returns
 to the Mass  Transit property (except on  official transit business). An  employee who
 punches a time card  other than his/her own may be subject  to disciplinary action. An
 employee who requests another employee to punch the first employee's card, may be upon
 proof, subject to disciplinary action.

 Section 10: Each  employee, at the time  he/she punches in on  his/her card, must have

Page 31

 changed into his/her work clothes prior to  punching the clock and be ready to work at
 the designated time.

ATU1267_Broward

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 32
 SPECIAL TOOLS AND GEAR

 Section 1: The Employer will furnish  all tools to mechanics hired prior to January 1,
 1992 and foul weather gear as needed by mechanics.

 Section  2  :  The  Safety   Director  for  Broward   County  shall   determine  those
 classifications  of maintenance  employees  which  need safety  equipment.  Individual
 safety shoes, safety  glasses, safety gloves and  back supports shall be  furnished to
 those maintenance  employees needing them,  as determined by  the Safety  Director for
 Broward County.

 Section 3: All maintenance employees will receive $75.00 once a year for safety shoes,
 payable the first full pay period in December of that year.

 Section 4 : All  maintenance department  employees will be  required to  wear clothing
 supplied by  the  Division while  on duty.  Mechanics and  maintenance employees  will
 present a neat and clean appearance at all times.

 Section 5: All mechanics hired after January 1, 1992, shall be required to provide all
 hand tools up  to and  including sizes to  one and one-quarter  (1 & 1/4)  inch tools.
 Mechanics, hired after January  1, 1992, who successfully  complete their probationary
 period by September 30  of a given year  will receive a tool  allowance of $200.00 per
 year,  payable the  first  full  pay period  in  December  of that  year.  Thereafter,
 employees hired after 1/1/92  will receive a $200  tool allowance once a  year payable
 the first full pay period in December.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 33
 WORKWEEK --- MAINTENANCE

 The  normal  workweek  for  all  maintenance  employees  shall  consist  of  five  (5)
 consecutive days of eight  (8) hours each. At the discretion  of management the County
 may implement an  alternate work  schedule of four  (4) consecutive days of  ten hours
 each.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 34
 WASH UP

 The present practice of  giving two (2) ten  (10) minute breaks plus  five (5) minutes
 wash up time in the Maintenance Department shall be continued.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 35
 PENSIONS

 The Employer agrees to continue to adopt the Florida Retirement System and incorporate
 herein the requirements of the Florida Retirement System as part of this Agreement.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

Page 32

 ARTICLE 36
 GENERAL CONDITIONS

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 1: The  Employer agrees to furnish to each individual  employee two (2) passes
 which shall be good for any dependent members (listed in Article 13 of this Agreement)
 either living in the  employee's household or listed  on their last year's  income tax
 return as dependents. Employees  who retire from County Service  and receive a pension
 from the Florida Retirement  System will receive two  (2) passes good only  for use by
 the retired employee  and his/her  spouse. Rules governing  the use of passes  will be
 adhered to.

 Section 2: The Employer shall designate  parking for private vehicles of employees who
 are assigned to work and are on duty.

 Section 3: In  the event that during  the term of this Agreement  the Division of Mass
 Transit acquires specialized equipment that requires training in order to operate said
 equipment it will be considered a condition of employment for any affected employee to
 present himself to the management at the appropriate time designated by management for
 training in  the  operation  of specialized  equipment. Failure  to  comply with  this
 Section  will  be  considered  cause  for  immediate  suspension  followed  by  severe
 disciplinary  action  including  termination.  The Employer  agrees  to  pay  affected
 employees for all training required.

 Section 4 : Employees  covered by  this Agreement  may participate  in an  Educational
 Reimbursement  Program to  be  established  and  administered  by the  Broward  County
 Division of Mass Transit. The eligibility requirements and amount, type, and condition
 precedent to  obtaining  reimbursement will  be determined  at the  discretion of  the
 County and subject to the amount available in the Educational Reimbursement Fund.

 Section 5: The  Employer shall provide two (2) boxes, one (1)  placed in the "driver's
 room," and one (1) placed in the  "maintenance lounge," for the use of union officials
 for their incoming mail and correspondence.

 Section 6 :  In the  event a  unit employee  is assigned  out of  the County,  his/her
 expenses, i.e.,  lodging and  meals, will  be reimbursed  according to  Administrative
 Order 701.

 Section 7: Should the employer issue  invitations to private sector contractors to bid
 on work performed  by employees covered by  this agreement, the employer  shall notify
 the Union of such issuance.

 Section 8: The union will have four  (4) seats on the employer's Safety Committee, two
 from Operations and two from Maintenance. In order to fill these seats, the union will
 submit five  names  for  each seat  (five  from Copans  Operations;  five from  Copans
 Maintenance; five from Ravenswood  Operations; five from Ravenswood  Maintenance) from
 which the employer will select one employee for each seat. The union's representatives
 selected  for service  on  the  Safety Committee  shall  serve  a one-year  term,  two
 beginning January 1st and two beginning July 1st of each year. No union representative
 shall serve two consecutive  terms. Off duty attendance on  the Safety Committee shall
 not be compensated.

 The union representatives will  be rotated, two on January 1st and two  on July 1st of
 each year.

 Section 9: County issued identification cards will  be updated at least every five (5)
 years

 Section 10 : Maintenance  employees will  be subject  to bi-annual  retraining by  the
 Safety and Training Department  concerning areas of safety to  include but not limited
 to, forklift and MSDS.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 37

Page 33

 SEPARABILITY

ATU1267_Broward

 This Agreement shall be  subject to and subordinate in all respects  to any present or
 subsequent federal or state law or regulation to the extent that any of the provisions
 herein contained are in conflict therewith, such  provisions or portions thereof shall
 become null and void and the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 38
 CONCLUDING GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Section 1 :  Notices  permitted or  required  to be  served under  the  terms of  this
 Agreement, unless otherwise specified,  shall be sufficiently served  for all purposes
 herein when mailed by  registered mail, postage prepaid,  return receipt requested, as
 follows:

 TO:
 Broward County Department of Community Services
 Division of Mass Transit
 3201 W Copans Road
 Pompano Beach, Florida 33064

 and the date of receipt of such  notice shall be the controlling date for all purposes
 hereunder. Any party to this Agreement may give a change of address to the other party
 by written notice,  and unless  such notice is given  to the other party,  the mailing
 address as set  forth herein shall be  considered sufficient for all  purposes. Notice
 may be delivered in person, but in such an event, proof of such delivery by the person
 receiving such notice must show the day  and the hour on the original of all copies of
 such notices.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 39
 SICK LEAVE & FAMILY ILLNESS LEAVE

 Section 1 : During  the term of  this Agreement, full-time  employees covered  by this
 Agreement shall be entitled to paid sick leave one (1) day per month accumulated for a
 maximum of one hundred and twenty (120) days.

 A. An employee shall not claim any  of the following days as a sick day and no payment
 shall be made or requested for these days:

 1. Holidays not worked, or during period of vacation;

 2. Day immediately  preceding or following a  scheduled vacation or holiday,  unless a
 doctor's note is presented on Mass Transit Division form;

 3. When Worker's Compensation is received.

 B. Earned but unused sick days shall be accumulated and paid as follows:

 1. When an  employee terminates  employment in good standing  he or she shall  be paid
 twenty-five percent (25%)  of his  or her accumulated  sick leave as of  the effective
 date of termination.

 2. An  employee  who  attains the  required  number  of years  of  County service  for
 retirement, and  is otherwise  eligible for  retirement under  the Florida  Retirement
 System, shall receive fifty  percent (50%) of his or her accumulated  sick leave as of
 the effective date of retirement.

 C. Employees may take sick leave equal to and no less than run time.

Page 34

 Section 2:  Sick  leave  pay is  granted  for absence  legitimately  due to  sickness,
 maternity, or accident  only. An  employee making claim  for sick leave pay  which the
 Employer considers excessive or abusive may be required to take a physical examination
 by a physician of  the Employer's choice, without  cost to the employee,  to determine
 the physical fitness of the employee to perform his/her duties.

ATU1267_Broward

 A.  Certification by  physician A  medical certificate  signed by  a licensed  Florida
 physician may be required by an employee's division head to substantiate a request for
 sick leave when:

 1. The  period  of absence  (due to  illness) consisted  of four  or more  consecutive
 working days.

 2. The Union will  be notified in writing  and be given reasonable  time not to exceed
 five (5) calendar  days to  counsel any unit  employee who management considers  to be
 abusing sick leave.

 The employee shall be simultaneously notified in writing by management.

 3. Absence  from  duty  recurs frequently  or  habitually and  the  employee has  been
 notified or warned that a certificate will be required should further absences occur.

 4.  Hospitalized  employees  and/or  outpatient  employees   who  furnish  a  doctor's
 certificate shall be considered to have satisfied the contract requirements.

 B. Abuse of sick  leave Should it be determined that an employee  is taking sick leave
 under false pretenses, the  time off shall be  without pay. The employee  will also be
 subject to disciplinary action.

 Section 3: Probationary employees shall be ineligible for sick leave pay.

 Section 4:

 A. Effective  November 1,  1983, and  beginning each  November 1,  and October  31, an
 employee may convert no more than one half (½) of the accrued sick leave not to exceed
 forty (40)  hours but  no less  than eight  (8) hours  earned and  accrued during  the
 preceding annual twelve (12) months provided that:

 1. The employee  must have  no less than  ninety six (96)  unused sick leave  hours in
 addition to the hours converted and,

 2. The option to  convert shall occur at the time the  employee picks his/her vacation
 schedule  (on or  about  December  15, each  year)  with  the understanding  that  the
 converted time shall thereafter be considered annual leave and not sick leave,

 3. Conversions must be in eight (8)  hour increments. For operators, any conversion of
 less than forty (40) hours must be taken in conjunction with his/her regular vacation.
 Maintenance employees with conversions  of less than forty (40) hours  can be taken in
 eight (8) hour increments, and must be picked during the vacation pick. Open dates for
 Maintenance employees are to be bid by seniority.

 Section 5: An employee, after completing  the first six (6) months of employment, will
 be entitled to earn one (1) bonus  day for each six (6) months thereafter that no sick
 leave  is taken.  The  bonus  day  must  be used  within  the  nine (9)  month  period
 immediately following the six  month (6) period in  which it was earned.  Each six (6)
 months is measured from the date of employment, or last instance of sick leave.

 If a bonus day is taken as  an actual day off as scheduled by the County, the employee
 will receive his/her regular  scheduled pay time but no less than  eight (8) hours. If
 the employee works the  bonus day as scheduled by the County,  he/she will receive pay
 for time actually worked plus an additional  eight (8) hours at the straight time rate
 of pay.

 Section 6: Employees  covered by this labor agreement may  participate in the County's
 Sick Leave Donation Program subject to the same guidelines and eligibility

Page 35

 requirements as non-represented employees.

 Section 7:

ATU1267_Broward

 A. Family Illness Leave may be granted to an eligible employee as defined in Paragraph
 B below in the  case of actual sickness  or disability of an  immediate family member.
 Immediate family  shall  be defined  as the  employee's spouse,  father, mother,  son,
 daughter, and stepson/daughter if domiciled in the employee's household. Under serious
 and  unusual  circumstances,  the  Division  Director or  designee,  at  his/her  sole
 discretion, will consider granting  Family Illness leave for employees  in the case of
 actual sickness  or disability  of an  immediate family  member not  domiciled in  the
 employee's household.

 B. Employees who  have successfully completed  an initial probationary period  and who
 are otherwise eligible to earn and use  sick and annual leave may be allowed to use up
 to a maximum of forty (40) hours  of their accrued sick leave in any one calendar year
 to care for an ill immediate family member.

 C. Use of accrued  sick leave for Family  Illness is subject to  the procedures of the
 Sick Leave Monitoring Policy  governing the use of Sick Leave and  shall be treated as
 any other  usage of  an employee's sick  leave for the  purposes of  documentation and
 approval.

 D. Leave  in excess  of the  forty (40) hours  specified in Paragraph  B above  may be
 granted in accordance with the provisions specified in Article 16, Vacations.

 E. Any changes made to the Family Illness Leave benefit granted by the Board of County
 Commissioners for non-represented employees during

 the term of this Agreement shall also apply to employees covered by this Agreement.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 40
 RELIEF OPERATOR

 Section 1:  If an  operator's relief operator  does not report  on time to  the relief
 point, the operator waiting for relief will  be given preference in continuing the run
 to completion at  time and  a half. The  operator waiting for  relief must  notify the
 dispatcher as to his or  her decision of whether he or she wishes  to continue the run
 or be relieved within two hours.

 Section 2: The employee  shall be guaranteed no less than one (1)  hour relief time if
 not relieved.

 Section 3 : If requested,  and not  relieved at the  end of the  first two  hours, the
 operator may return the bus to the yard.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 41
 SHIFT WORK

 Section 1: Maintenance  employees beginning a tour of duty on or  after 10:00 p.m. and
 working at least eight (8) hours shall receive fifty cents ($.50) per hour in addition
 to their regular rate of pay. The additional fifty cents ($.50) per hour shall be used
 in calculating overtime.

 Section 2:  Maintenance employees beginning  a tour of duty  on or after 3:00  p.m. to
 12:30 a.m., shall receive forty-five cents ($.45) per hour for their full tour of duty
 in addition to their  regular rate of pay. The additional  forty-five cents ($.45) per
 hour shall be used in calculating overtime.

Page 36

 Section 3: All  regular scheduled service operators  working at least seven  (7) hours
 after 3:00 p.m., shall receive twenty five  cents ($.25) per hour for all hours worked
 after 3:00 p.m. in  addition to his or her regular rate of  pay. The additional twenty
 five cents ($.25) per hour shall be used in calculating overtime.

ATU1267_Broward

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 42
 CONFLICTS

 Where a  conflict exists  between the  provisions of this  agreement and  County Civil
 Service provisions, this agreement shall prevail.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 43
 DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING

 Section 1.

 A. The County and  the Union recognize that  employee substance and alcohol  abuse may
 have an adverse impact  on County government, the  image of County employees,  and the
 general health, welfare and safety of the employees and the general public at large.

 B. All  employees shall  be fully  informed of  the County's  substance abuse  testing
 policy before testing  is administered.  Employees shall be provided  with information
 concerning the impact of the use of drugs and abuse of alcohol on job performance. All
 newly hired  employees shall  be provided  with this  information within  a reasonable
 period after  their  initial  date of  hire.  No  employee may  be  tested until  this
 information is provided to him.

 Section 2. PURPOSE:  The purpose of this  policy is to assure  worker fitness for duty
 and to protect our  employees, passengers, and the  public from the risk  posed by the
 use of alcohol and prohibited drugs.

 Section 3.  APPLICABILITY:  All employees  covered by  this Agreement  perform safety-
 sensitive functions  and  are,  therefore, subject  to  drug  and alcohol  testing  in
 accordance with this Article  and applicable laws and  regulations. A safety-sensitive
 function is any duty  related to the safe operation of  mass transit service including
 the operation, dispatch, and maintenance of a  revenue service vehicle (whether or not
 the vehicle is in revenue service).

 Section 4. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE APPLICABILITY:

 A. Pursuant to the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, any employee who is convicted of a
 criminal drug  violation occurring  in the  workplace must notify  the County  of such
 conviction in writing no  later than five (5)  days after the conviction.  An employee
 who is convicted of a violation of  a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace
 will be subject  to discipline,  up to and  including termination. As used  above, the
 term conviction means a  finding of guilty (including  a plea of nolo  contendere), an
 imposition  of  a  sentence,   or  both,  by  any  judicial   body  charged  with  the
 responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.

 B. Pursuant to  its obligations under the  Drug-Free Workplace Act of  1988 the County
 will:

 1.Notify the appropriate  Federal grantor agencies  within ten (10) days  of receiving
 notification  from  an  employee  or  otherwise  receiving  notice  of  an  employee's
 conviction of a violation of a criminal drug statute;

 2.Discipline the employee, up to and including termination, within thirty (30) days of
 receiving notification from an employee or otherwise receiving notice of an employee's

Page 37

 conviction of a violation of a criminal drug statute;

ATU1267_Broward

 3.Make a  good  faith  effort to  maintain  a drug-free  workplace  by fulfilling  the
 requirements of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988; and

 4.Notify all employees of the County's drug-free workplace policy.

 Section 5. PROHIBITED CONDUCT

 A. Intoxication/Under the Influence : Any safety-sensitive employee  who is reasonably
 suspected  of  being  intoxicated,  impaired,  under the  influence  of  a  prohibited
 substance,  or not  fit  for  duty  shall be  suspended  from  job duties  pending  an
 investigation and verification of condition. Employees found to be under the influence
 of prohibited substances or  who fail to pass a drug or alcohol  test shall be removed
 from duty. A drug or alcohol test is considered positive if the individual is found to
 have a quantifiable presence  of a prohibited substance in the  body above the minimum
 thresholds defined in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended.

 B. Alcohol Use: No safety-sensitive employee  should report for duty or remain on duty
 when his/her ability to perform assigned functions is adversely affected by alcohol or
 when his/her alcohol concentration  is 0.04 or greater.  No safety- sensitive employee
 shall use alcohol  while performing  safety-sensitive functions, within four  hours of
 reporting for duty, or during  the hours that they are on call. In  order for the test
 to be done at  the conclusion of a  shift, the test must be  done immediately, and the
 employee shall be paid  for the time necessary to conduct the test  which pay shall be
 for no less than 30 minutes.

 C.  Compliance  with  Testing Requirements : All  safety-sensitive  employees will  be
 subject  to urine  drug  testing  and  breath  alcohol testing.  Any  safety-sensitive
 employee  who refuses  to  comply  with a  request  for  testing, who  provides  false
 information in connection with a test, or who attempts to falsify test results through
 tampering, contamination,  adulteration, or  substitution shall  be removed  from duty
 immediately, and  their employment  terminated. Refusal  can include  an inability  to
 provide a specimen or  breath sample within three (3) hours of  the initial attempt to
 provide  a  specimen  or  sample  without  a   valid  medical  explanation;  a  verbal
 declaration; obstructive behavior; or  physical absence resulting in  the inability to
 conduct the test.

 Section 6. TESTING FOR PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES:

 A. Pursuant to  federal regulations and county  policy, testing will be  conducted for
 the following substances:

                                        Alcohol
                                       Marijuana
                                        Cocaine
                                        Opiates
                                     Phencyclidine
                                     Amphetamines

 The County  will periodically  inform employees,  formally and/or  informally, of  the
 dangers of  drug and  alcohol abuse  in the workplace  and of  rehabilitation programs
 available to employees.

 B. All safety-sensitive employees shall be subject to testing prior to employment, for
 reasonable suspicions, and following  an accident, consistent with  applicable federal
 regulations. In  addition,  all safety-sensitive  employees will  be  tested prior  to
 returning to  duty  after  failing a  drug  test, during  and/or  after completion  of
 rehabilitation treatment.  Those employees who  perform safety-sensitive  functions as
 defined in Section  3 of  this policy shall  also be subject  to testing on  a random,
 unannounced basis.

 C. Regarding drug testing, an initial drug  screen will be conducted on each specimen.
 For those  specimens that  are not  negative, a  confirmatory Gas  Chromatography/Mass
 Spectrometry (GC/MS) test will  be performed. The test will  be considered positive if

Page 38

 the amounts present are above the minimum thresholds established in 49 CFR Part 40, as
 amended.

ATU1267_Broward

 D. Tests  for alcohol  concentration will  be conducted  utilizing a  National Highway
 Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)-approved evidential  breath testing device (EBT)
 operated by a trained  breath alcohol technician (BAT). If  the initial test indicates
 an alcohol  concentration  of 0.02  or greater,  a second  test will  be performed  to
 confirm the  results  of  the initial  test.  A safety-sensitive  employee  who has  a
 confirmed alcohol concentration of greater than 0.02 but less than 0.04 will result in
 removal from his or her position for  the remainder of the employee's scheduled shift.
 An alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater will be considered a positive alcohol test
 and in violation of this policy.

 E. Any safety-sensitive  employee that has a  confirmed positive drug or  alcohol test
 will be  removed from  his/her position,  informed of  educational and  rehabilitation
 programs available, and evaluated by a Substance Abuse Professional (SAP).

 F. Upon successful completion of compulsory or voluntary rehabilitation (as determined
 by the County  physician and  SAP) the employee  shall be returned to  his/her regular
 duty assignment or the equivalent thereof. If  continued treatment is prescribed after
 return to  duty,  such  may be  imposed  by the  County as  a  condition of  continued
 employment consistent with a  return to work agreement.  Such prescribed treatment may
 include unannounced follow-up testing which shall be  conducted in accordance with the
 federal regulations. Should an employee refuse to submit to drug or alcohol testing in
 accordance with this  Article and the County's  policy, to submit to  and successfully
 complete a  treatment  and rehabilitation  program prescribed  by the  SAP and  County
 Physician, to comply with the requirements of  any prescribed treatment, or should the
 employee test positive for  drugs or alcohol during  the rehabilitation and prescribed
 treatment period, the employee shall be immediately dismissed.

 Section 7. Types of Testing:

 A. Pre-Employment  Testing : All  safety-sensitive position  applicants shall  undergo
 urine drug testing and  breath alcohol testing  (alcohol testing suspended by  FTA May
 10, 1995) prior  to employment.  Receipt by BCT  of negative test results  is required
 prior to employment. Employees may also be  required to undergo pre-employment testing
 following  a leave  of  absence,  seasonal  layoff,  out  or reassigned  for  workers’
 compensation, temporary  assignment  to  nonsafety-sensitive duties  (including  light
 duty), or combination thereof, for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.

 B. Reasonable Suspicion  Testing: The County  may require any employee  to submit to a
 breath and/or urine analysis  when it has a  reasonable suspicion that an  employee is
 impaired in the  performance of  his/her duties because  he is under the  influence of
 alcohol, drugs  or  narcotics.  To permit  testing, the  County  must have  reasonable
 suspicion based upon  the observations  of one (1) supervisor  establishing reasonable
 suspicion to  believe that  an employee  is under  the influence  of illegal  drugs or
 alcohol.

 C. Post-Accident Testing : All safety-sensitive employees will  be required to undergo
 urine and  breath testing  if they  are involved  in an  accident with  a BCT  vehicle
 (regardless of whether  or not  the vehicle is in  revenue service) that results  in a
 fatality.  This includes  all  safety-sensitive  employees  that  are on-duty  in  the
 vehicles and any other whose performance could have contributed to the accident.

 1.In addition,  a  post-accident test  will be  conducted  if an  accident results  in
 injuries requiring  transportation to  a medical  treatment facility;  or one  or more
 vehicles incurs  disabling  damage  that requires  towing from  the  site; unless  the
 employer determines, using the best information available at the time of the decision,
 that the covered employee's performance can be completely discounted as a contributing
 factor to the accident .

 2.Following an accident, the safety-sensitive employee will be tested immediately, but
 not to  exceed eight  hours for  alcohol testing  and 32 hours  for drug  testing. Any
 safety-sensitive employee involved  in an accident  must refrain from alcohol  use for
 eight hours following the  accident or until he/she  undergoes a post-accident alcohol

Page 39

 test. Any  safety-sensitive  employee who  leaves the  scene of  the accident  without
 justifiable explanation  prior  to  submission to  drug and  alcohol  testing will  be
 considered to have refused the test and  their employment terminated. Employees tested
 under this provision  will include  not only the  operations personnel, but  any other
 covered employees whose performance could have contributed to the accident.

ATU1267_Broward

 D.  Random  Testing:  Employees in  safety-sensitive  positions will  be subjected  to
 random,  unannounced   testing.  At  least   50  percent  of   the  total   number  of
 safety-sensitive employees subject  to drug  testing and at  least 25  ten  10 percent
 subject to alcohol testing must be tested  each year. These percentages are subject to
 change as prescribed in the federal regulations as amended.

 E.  Return-to-Duty  Testing : All  safety-sensitive  employees  who previously  tested
 positive on a drug or alcohol test must test negative and be evaluated and released to
 duty by the Substance Abuse Professional before returning to work.

 F. Follow-up Testing : Safety-sensitive employees  will be required to  undergo random
 urine and breath testing consistent with their return to work agreement.

 G. Employee Requested Testing: Any safety-sensitive employee who questions the results
 of a required drug  test under paragraphs 6.1  through 6.5 of this  policy may request
 that an  additional test  be conducted.  This test  must be  conducted at  a different
 testing DHHS-certified laboratory. The test must be conducted on the split sample that
 was provided at the  same time as the original sample. All costs  for such testing are
 paid by  the employee  unless the  result of  the split sample  test is  negative. The
 method of collecting,  storing, and testing the  split sample will be  consistent with
 the procedures set forth  in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended. The  employee's request for a
 split sample test  must be made to  the MRO within 72  hours of notice of  the initial
 test result. Requests  after 72 hours  will only be accepted  if the delay was  due to
 documentable facts that were beyond the control of the employee.

 Section 8. EMPLOYEE ASSESSMENT:

 A. Any safety-sensitive employee who tests positive  for the presence of illegal drugs
 or alcohol above the minimum thresholds set  forth in 49 CFR Part 40, as amended, will
 be evaluated by a  Substance Abuse Professional (SAP). A SAP  is a licensed physician,
 or  a  licensed  or   certified  psychologist,  social  worker,   employee  assistance
 professional, or addiction counselor with knowledge of  and clinical experience in the
 diagnosis and treatment of controlled substance or  alcohol-related disorders. The SAP
 will evaluate each employee  to determine what assistance, if  any, the employee needs
 in resolving problems associated with prohibited substance abuse or misuse.

 B. An employee who test positive for the presence of alcohol, and is referred to a SAP
 for assessment, shall  have the option to  take advantage of the  following applicable
 review process:

 1.If the County  contracts with  an outside provider  for SAP services,  the following
 process will apply:

 After a  SAP  has recommended  treatment and  the employee  has met  with a  treatment
 provider to prepare a  treatment plan, the employee  may request that his/her  case be
 reviewed by a  County Employee Assistance Program  SAP if the employee  disagrees with
 the treatment recommendation.

 2.If the  County  does not  contract with  an outside provider  for SAP  services, the
 following process will apply:

 After a  County  Employee Assistance  Program SAP  has recommended  treatment and  the
 employee has met with  a treatment provider to prepare a  treatment plan, the employee
 may request  that his/her  case be  reviewed by  a qualified  third party  SAP if  the
 employee disagrees with  the treatment recommendation.  The County and the  Union will
 mutually select the third party SAP.

 C. If a safety-sensitive  employee is allowed to  return-to-duty, he/she must properly
 follow the  rehabilitation  program  prescribed by  the SAP,  the  employee must  pass

Page 40

ATU1267_Broward

 return-to-duty drug and alcohol  tests, and be subject  to unannounced follow-up tests
 for a period of up to  five years from date of return to duty.  Should the employee be
 unavailable for follow-up testing  due to approved leave  of absence, seasonal layoff,
 out  or  reassigned   for  workers’   compensation  ,  any  temporary   assignment  to
 nonsafety-sensitive duties (including light duty) or combination thereof, for a period
 of thirty (30) consecutive  days or longer, the employee shall  be re-evaluated by the
 SAP to determine whether  the requirement for and term of  treatment and/or the Return
 to  Work Agreement  shall  be  extended accordingly.  The  cost  of any  treatment  or
 rehabilitation services  will  be paid  directly by  the employee  or their  insurance
 provider.

 Section 9. SYSTEM CONTACT: Any questions  regarding this policy or any other aspect of
 the  drug-free  and  alcohol-free  transit  program  individuals  should  contact  the
 following transit system representative:

 Drug and Alcohol Testing Program Manager

 Broward County Transit(305) 357-8304

 Section 10.  VOLUNTARY ADMITTANCE : All employees  are encouraged to  make use  of the
 available  resources for  treatment  for  alcohol  and  substance abuse  problems.  An
 employee may  be allowed to  voluntarily enter a  County approved  chemical dependency
 program, assuming that the  employee has had no history of  substance influence or use
 and that no  disciplinary action  is pending (and  further that the employee  has done
 nothing for which  he could  be subject to  disciplinary action) at  the time  of such
 request.

 Section 11. GENERAL PROVISIONS:

 A. The  parties  agree  that rehabilitation  rather  than  discipline is  the  primary
 objective. At the conclusion  of the drug and/or alcohol testing,  the County may take
 whatever action, if any, it deems appropriate. However, in the case of an employee who
 has not previously  tested positive, and except  in cases involving moderate  or major
 property damage, personal injury of passengers or other members of the public or gross
 misconduct by the employee, the employee shall be permitted to enter a County approved
 chemical dependency program.

 B. Testing shall  be conducted  in a manner  to assure a  high degree of  accuracy and
 reliability and using techniques, equipment, and laboratory facilities which have been
 approved by the U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services (DHHS). All testing will
 be conducted consistent with the procedures put forth in 49 CFR [Part 40, as amended.]

 C. An  employee  affected  by the  provisions  of  the Article  shall  be granted  the
 opportunity to contact and meet with a  Union official in order to advise the Union of
 the desire of  the County to  take a urine sample  and/or breath sample prior  to said
 sample being given  by the  affected employee. However, in  no event will the  test be
 delayed by more than one (1) hour.

 D. Two (2) years after treatment is  completed, the records of such treatment shall be
 retired to a closed  medical record. The employee shall be given a  fresh start with a
 clean administrative  record and  the retired  records shall not  be used  against the
 employee in any proceeding.  However, this fresh start provision may  be used only for
 the first instance of compulsory treatment.

 E.  Application of  all  aspects  of  this  procedure  are  subject to  the  grievance
 procedure.

 F. The Union,  upon request, shall  have the right to  observe any aspect of  the drug
 testing program, with the exception of individual  test results. The Union may inspect
 individual test results only  if the release of such information  is authorized by the
 employee involved, or may observe an individual during testing only if consented to by
 the individual. Such authorization or consent must be in writing.

 G. Employees are entitled  to all rights, benefits  and protections to which  they are
 otherwise entitled under law but which are not expressly set out herein.

Page 41

ATU1267_Broward

 H. This article is  not intended as a complete restatement  of the federal regulations
 or the County's policy. All regulatory requirements  not specified herein shall govern
 the implementation of this article.

 I. The parties agree  that the Broward County Transit substance  abuse policy shall be
 consistent with the  Federal regulations adopted  pursuant to the Drug  Free Workplace
 Act of 1988, the  Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing  Act of 1991, and  any other
 applicable State or Federally mandated rules or regulations.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 44
 WORK RULES

 Section 1:  The County's operations work  rules revised October 1999,  and maintenance
 work rules revised October  1996 ("work rules") are  incorporated by reference herein,
 and shall in all respects be part  of the Agreement. Any application or interpretation
 of these rules shall be subject to the grievance procedure.

 Section 2:  Should the County  desire to add to,  delete, and/or amend a  current work
 rule or to issue  a new work rule,  such work rule shall be  presented, in writing, to
 the Union at least  thirty (30) days prior to proposed implementation  of the new work
 rule.

 Section 3: Nothing  in this provision shall constitute a waiver  of the Union's right,
 under the Public  Employees Relation  Act, if any, to  bargain over the impact  of any
 proposed work rule.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 45
 RUN/SHIFT EXCHANGE

 Section  1:  Effective  January  1,  1992,  members of  the  bargaining  unit,  except
 probationary employees  in  training,  shall have  the right  to  request a  run/shift
 exchange by means of a form provided by the County, which both parties to the exchange
 must complete and sign. The completed form  must be presented to the Superintendent or
 designee for approval. Requests  for exchanges must be made  seventy-two (72) hours in
 advance. In the case  of a documentable emergency,  approval may be granted  with less
 than seventy-two (72) hours notice at the discretion of the Superintendent.

 Section 2: The  maximum number of exchanges  allowable for any bargaining  unit member
 shall not exceed five  (5) exchanges per calendar year for  an employee initiating the
 request. Run/shift exchange cannot be used in conjunction with a scheduled vacation.

 Section 3: Any employee on duty by virtue of a run/shift exchange shall be entitled to
 the  same   benefits,  privileges,   and  protections  and   shall  assume   the  same
 responsibilities as  on-duty  personnel.  Repayment of  a  run/shift  exchange is  the
 responsibility of the employee.

 Section 4: A replacement who leaves  work early because of illness shall have the sick
 leave deducted  from  his/her bank  and  not from  the bank  accrued  by the  employee
 originally assigned  to the  run/shift. Otherwise,  payroll computations  will not  be
 affected by run/shift exchanges.

 Section 5: A run/shift exchange constitutes an even exchange and neither party becomes
 eligible for overtime pay  because of the exchange. Each employee  will be credited as
 if they had worked their normal schedule.

 Section 6: An employee  who abuses the procedures  described in this Article  shall be
 subject to the loss of the right to run/shift exchange for the period of one (1) year.
 Any member of the  bargaining unit who agrees to run/shift  exchange, but reports sick

Page 42

 for the agreed exchange  must provide doctor's lines  to verify the illness.  All sick
 reporting or booking off  a run must be done in accordance  with existing policies. An
 employee who fails to provide doctor's lines  or otherwise fails to report to work the
 agreed run/shift, shall be  subject to disciplinary action.  Members of the bargaining
 unit are encouraged  to police the practice  themselves with the operational  needs of
 the County, as well as the practical needs of their bargaining unit members in mind.

ATU1267_Broward

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 46
 PART-TIME BUS OPERATORS

 All terms and conditions of the labor  agreement, including work rules, shall apply to
 part-time operators except as otherwise specifically provided in this Article:

 Section 1: The total number of  part-time operators shall not exceed 5% (five) percent
 of the total  number of  budgeted full-time bus  operators. No full-time  bus operator
 will be laid off  as a result of  hiring part-time bus operators.  Notwithstanding the
 provisions of Article  8 (Reduction  in Personnel -  Reemployment), in the event  of a
 layoff, part-time operators  shall be laid off  prior to any full-time  operator being
 displaced.

 Section 2: Part-time operators will not  be scheduled to work more than five (5) hours
 per day and not  more than twenty-five (25)  hours or less than  twenty (20) per week.
 Part-time operators shall be  used for working AM  or PM trippers only,  which are not
 part of a full-time  bid run. Part-time operators will not  work Sundays, football, or
 other special park and rides.

 Section 3: Leave of Absences shall  not exceed ninety (90) calendar days for part-time
 operators. Granting of such leave will be at the discretion of management.

 Section 4 :  The  part-time seniority  list  will  remain separate  from  that of  the
 full-time bus operators list.

 Section 5: For  the purposes of Sick and Annual Leave  part-time operators will accrue
 leave on a pro-rata basis as defined by the number of hours worked.

 Section 6:  A part-time  bus operator will  be given the  first opportunity  to change
 their status  to full-time  bus operator  when a position  becomes available.  If they
 refuse the full-time  bus operator position, they  remain at their current  status and
 the opportunity  for  full-time  status will  then  be passed  to  the next  part-time
 operator  on the  part-time  seniority  list  until exhausted.  Thereafter,  full-time
 positions will be filled  from the County's eligibility  list. Part-time bus operators
 who have completed their initial six- month probationary period who accept a full-time
 operator position shall  serve a probationary  period of sixty-nine (69)  working days
 and in  the event  that operator's probation  is rejected, the  operator shall  have a
 right to retreat  to a part-time operator  position. Part-time bus operators  who have
 not completed  their  initial six-month  probationary period  who  accept a  full-time
 operator position shall serve a full-time probationary period six (6) months beginning
 on date of  full-time employment  and shall have  no right to  retreat to  a part-time
 position.

 Full-time operators shall  have the  option to fill  part-time vacancies prior  to the
 hiring of  new  part-time operators.  In the  event the  converted part-time  operator
 wishes to revert  back to  full-time s/he could do  so and return to  full-time status
 with prior seniority if this change is made within seventy (70) working days.

 Section 7: Part-time  operators shall be paid four (4) hours at  their regular rate of
 pay for each Holiday.

 Section 8:  Part-time runs  will be assigned via  a pick based on  part-time seniority
 regardless of facility. Part-time operator picks will coincide with full-time operator
 picks. Part-time operators shall be paid for all hours worked at their regular rate of
 pay.

Page 43

ATU1267_Broward

 Section 9: All part-time operators will  receive an initial uniform upon completion of
 training as outlined in Article 27 except  that s/he will receive 3 shirts, 2 trousers
 and the  choice of  a sweater  or jacket,  the remaining  balance will  be given  upon
 completion of full-time training, if applicable. These  uniform items must be returned
 to BCt  in  the  event the  employee  leaves during  his or  her  first calendar  year
 otherwise the cost  of initial  uniforms will be  deducted from their  final paycheck.
 Subsequent vouchers  ninety ($90.00)  will be issued  similarly to  full-time issuance
 according to Article  27. For  the purpose of  the proration process (using  $8.33 per
 month) will be used for part-time operators.

 Section 10: Part-time  bus operators will only  be issued one pass  which will only be
 good for  their use.  A second  pass for use  by the part-timer's  family will  not be
 issued. At any  time when  leaving the employ  of Mass Transit  the pass  and transfer
 punch holder and all other necessary items that may be required to be returned, before
 the final payroll check will be issued.

 Section 11: Any  part-time operator reporting for work late five  (5) minutes or less,
 may be held for part-time work at the dispatchers discretion.

 Section 12: The following  rules and regulations shall  apply to the operation  of the
 Part-time Extra Board which shall be separate from the Full-time Extra Board establish
 in  Article 23,  Section  2.  These  rules and  regulations  shall  be posted  in  the
 operators' room and may  be changed from time to time by  the mutual written agreement
 of both parties.

 A. A Part-time Extra Board may operate from either facility as needed.

 B. If a part-time  run is open the  prior day, it will be filled  by a part-time extra
 board operator.

 C. If no part-time  run is open the prior day, part-time  operator assigned a.m. extra
 board will standby in  the a.m. and the other assigned p.m.  extra board operator will
 standby in the p.m.

 D. A Part-time Extra Board operator shall  be guaranteed two (2) hours standby pay per
 day but no less than twenty (20) hours per week provide all reports are made.

 E. Should a Part-time  Extra Board operator fail  to make any report  to which s/he is
 assigned, the  amount  of the  weekly minimum  guarantee of  pay shall  be reduced  by
 one-fifth (1/5th) of  said guarantee for each  day the Part-time Extra  Board operator
 fails to report properly.

 F. If a regular  part-time operator is on long term approved  leave (such as vacation,
 sick leave, workers' compensation, etc.), the Part-time Extra Board operators for that
 facility will bid for  the hold down by  seniority or will be assigned  (if the run is
 not bid). A.m. regular  part-time runs will be bid from the a.m.  extra board and p.m.
 regular part-time runs will be bid from the p.m. extra board.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 47
 DURATION OF AGREEMENT

 Section 1: The  provisions of this agreement  shall be effective upon  ratification of
 the Unit  membership and  approval of  the Board of  County Commissioners  for Broward
 County, Florida and  shall continue in  force thereafter, through September  30, 2002,
 exclusively for those bargaining  unit employees on the  Mass Transit Division payroll
 on the date of approval of this Agreement by the Board of County Commissioners.

 Section 2: This Agreement shall remain in effect from year to year after September 30,
 2002, unless changed or terminated as herein provided.

 A.For fiscal year 2000/01  either party may notify  the other by submitting  a written

Page 44

 intent to bargain, not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date, that it
 desires to re-open the agreement for negotiation.  If such notice is made, the parties
 shall re-open Article 26 of the agreement  to negotiate compensation for the 2000-2001
 fiscal year.  During  these  negotiations, each  party  may designate  up  to two  (2)
 additional articles to  be re-opened for re-negotiation,  for a maximum total  of five
 (5) articles.

ATU1267_Broward

 B.For fiscal year 2001/02  either party may notify  the other by submitting  a written
 intent to bargain, not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date, that it
 desires to reopen the  agreement for negotiation. If such notice  is made, the parties
 shall re-open Article 26 of the agreement  to negotiate compensation for the 2001-2002
 fiscal year.  During  these  negotiations, each  party  may designate  up  to two  (2)
 additional articles to  be re-opened for re-negotiation,  for a maximum total  of five
 (5) articles.

 C.If such notice is given by either  party, it shall also contain an offer to meet and
 confer with the  other party  for the purpose of  negotiating a new Agreement.  In the
 event  the  parties  cannot  reach  an  Agreement  on any  said  proposed  changes  or
 modifications, then such proposed changes or modifications  as either party may desire
 to have arbitrated as provided for by Florida law.

 Section 3: If  no Agreement shall have been reached by the  parties within thirty (30)
 days from the  expiration of  said term of  this Agreement, the Federal  Mediation and
 Conciliation Service  and  any  state agency  established  to  mediate and  conciliate
 disputes within the state shall be notified  of the existence of a dispute as provided
 for by Florida law.

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 48
 LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING

 The attached  letters  of  understanding described  below are  to  continue in  effect
 throughout the term of this Agreement.

 1) November 13, 1978, re: Article 31

 2) September 23, 1991, re: vendor items

 3) June 27,  1995, re:Applicability  of Federal Transit Administration  Regulations to
 contractual Drug or Alcohol Testing.

 4) October 5, 1999, re: Promotional Policy

 5) December 19, 1995 re: Probation Extension

 6) Light Duty Policy Maintenance

 7) October 8, 1999, re: Run Relief

 8) October 8, 1999, re: Restroom Facilities

 9) October 8, 1999, re: Labor Management Committee - Performance Bonus

 10) October 8, 1999, re: Labor Management Committee - Early Exit Program

 11) October 8, 1999, re: Development of Guidelines - Diabetic Bus Operators

 12) October 8, 1999, re: Clarification of Medical Arbitration and Light Duty

 October 5, 1999

 Joe Catricola, President
 ATU Local 1267

Page 45

 c/o Mass Transit Division

ATU1267_Broward

 RE: Letter of Understanding - Promotional Policy

 Dear Mr. Catricola:

 The purpose  of this  letter is  to document  our mutual  understanding and  agreement
 regarding promotions or  appointments to the  Maintenance Section of the  Mass Transit
 Division. This letter  further replaces  the Letter of Understanding  effective August
 10,1995.

 The promotional policy affecting promotions or appointments to positions between the
 Maintenance and Operations Sections of the Mass Transit Division is as follows:

 1. Promotion means a change of employment status from a position of one classification
 to a position of another classification which has a higher maximum salary. Promotional
 appointments shall not be grievable.

 2. The wage rate upon promotion will be set as follows:

 a. Employees promoted to the Maintenance Section shall be assigned the wage rate which
 is closest to their pre-promotion wage rate, without a decrease. In the case where the
 employee selected is at a rate higher than the highest rate of the promotion position,
 the employee will  only be  paid at the  highest rate of  the promotion  position, not
 his\her pre promotion rate.

 b. Employees promoted  to the Operations Section  shall be assigned the  training rate
 for the period of  training. Upon the successful completion  of training, the employee
 will  be assigned  his  or  her  pre-promotion  wage  rate  immediately prior  to  the
 promotion, without a  decrease. Thereafter, employees will move  through the wage rate
 schedule outlined in Article 26 as appropriate.

 3. The  date of  promotion, without  regard for  years of  service, shall  be used  to
 determine seniority date and annual raises (until the employee reaches the "Thereafter
 Step" in  the  new position).  The date  of hire  shall still  be used  for all  other
 seniority purposes.

 4. There shall also be a probationary  period served when an employee is promoted. The
 term of this period  shall be six (6)  calendar months from the  "established date and
 hour of employment",  consistent with  Article 17. There  shall be no right  of appeal
 from  a  probationary  rejection  action  taken  against   an  employee,  during  this
 probationary period, except in cases involving alleged  discrimination. If an employee
 is removed during the probationary period following a promotion for failure to perform
 satisfactoThere shall  also  be  a probationary  period  served  when an  employee  is
 promoted.  The term  of  this  period  shall  be  six  (6) calendar  months  from  the
 "established date a

 A probationary promotional appointment does not affect  an employee's earned permanent
 status and  rights in  the County  system acquired in  another position.  The promoted
 employee retains  the  right to  bring  a grievance  under any  term  or condition  of
 employment specified in this 'Agreement.

 5 . If  the promoted employee  is returned to their  former position, which is  in the
 bargaining unit, he or she will be returned with no loss of seniority. If the promoted
 employee voluntarily decides  to bid  back to their  former position, which is  in the
 bargaining unit, after seventy (70) working days, they will do so at the bottom of the
 applicable seniority list.

 If you  agree that  the contents  of this  letter accurately  reflects our  agreement,
 please sign below and return to me.

 Sincerely,

 _________________________ _______________________

Page 46

 Phil Rosenberg, Director Union Representative

ATU1267_Broward

 October 8, 1999

 Joe Catricola, President

 ATU Local 1267

 c/o Mass Transit Division

 RE: Letter of Understanding - Run Relief

 Dear Mr. Catricola:

 The purpose of this  letter is to establish our mutual understanding  with regard to a
 mechanism to objectively address runs which may  have insufficient time to provide for
 optimal customer service and safety.

 The following establishes the procedures for run relief:

 1. An operator will  notify management, in writing, of his or  her concern with regard
 to run time for a particular run.

 2. Management, with the  assistance of the Union,  will review the run  (for up to ten
 runs).

 3. Should a determination  be made that additional time is needed on  the run and such
 can be added without interfering with the entire route schedule, time may be added. If
 time is added to a run, NO bump down pick (as described in Article 24, Section 5) will
 be required.

 Nothing herein infringes on management’s right to set operation schedules.

 If this letter is consistent with our mutual understanding please, sign below.

 Sincerely,

 _________________________ _______________________

 Phil Rosenberg, Director Union Representative

 October 8, 1999

 Joe Catricola, President

 ATU Local 1267

 c/o Mass Transit Division

 RE: Letter of Understanding - Restroom Facilities

 Dear Mr. Catricola:

 The purpose of this letter is to establish our mutual understanding with regard to the
 availability of restrooms at the end of a run.

 If the Union requests management to review the accessibility of restroom facilities at
 the end of a run, management will use its best efforts to secure access at established
 restroom facilities.

 If this letter is consistent with our mutual understanding, please sign below.

 Sincerely,

 _________________________ _______________________

Page 47

 Phil Rosenberg, Director Union Representative

ATU1267_Broward

 October 8, 1999

 Joe Catricola, President

 ATU Local 1267

 c/o Mass Transit Division

 RE: Letter of Understanding - Performance Bonus/Gain Sharing Committee

 Dear Mr. Catricola:

 The purpose of this letter is to establish our mutual understanding of the creation of
 a Performance Bonus/Gain Sharing Committee as outlined herein.

 Effective no later than December 31, 1999,  the Union and the County agree to create a
 Labor Management Committee on incentives and productivity  gains. The Labor Management
 Committee shall consist of three (3) representative  from the Union and three (3) from
 the County. The purpose  of this Committee will be to  identify job related incentives
 that will compensate employees as a job related performance bonus or gain sharing. The
 Committee will reduce their recommendations to writing, and in turn, will be submitted
 to the County Administrator and the Union President for approval. Once approved by the
 County Administrator and the Union President, the recommendations shall be implemented
 after the bargaining unit members have accepted  and ratified the recommendations, and
 if necessary, acceptance by the County Commission.

 If this  letter is  consistent with  our mutual  understanding, please  sign below.  I
 believe the creation of  this committee is a  positive step in further  developing the
 relationship  and  cooperation  between  union and  management  toward  the  efficient
 operation of such a valuable public service.

 Sincerely,

 _________________________ _______________________

 Phil Rosenberg, Director Union Representative

 October 8, 1999

 Joe Catricola, President

 ATU Local 1267

 c/o Mass Transit Division

 RE: Letter of Understanding - Committee for Review of Early Exit Program

 Dear Mr. Catricola:

 The purpose of this letter is to establish our mutual understanding of the creation of
 a Early Exit Review Committee. During bargaining, the Union requested consideration of
 a proposal for  the early  exit of some  eligible members. The proposal  included that
 each employee retiring early shall receive, as  an incentive, $300.00 per month for up
 to three (3)  years or  to the age  of Medicare eligibility,  not to exceed  three (3)
 years. Management  agrees to consider  the Union’s proposal  and the  Labor Management
 Committee will be created to explore all the impacts of this proposal.

 This Labor  Management  Committee will  be created  prior  to December  31, 1999.  The
 purpose of  this  Committee will  be  to identify  the eligibility  and  impacts of  a
 proposal and  explore implementation  a proposal  in a subsequent  year of  this labor
 agreement (99/00,00/01, 01/02).

Page 48

 The Union may nominate three bargaining unit  members to participate on the Committee.
 Management will provide whatever subject matter experts on staff necessary to consider
 the options explored.

ATU1267_Broward

 If this letter is consistent with our mutual understanding, please sign below.

 Sincerely,

 _________________________ _______________________

 Phil Rosenberg, Director Union Representative

 October 8, 1999

 Joe Catricola, President

 ATU Local 1267

 c/o Mass Transit Division

 RE: Letter of Understanding - Development of Guidelines for Diabetic Bus Operators

 Dear Mr. Catricola:

 The purpose of this letter is to document our mutual agreement that the County and the
 Union agree to meet and discuss the  development of guidelines with regard to Diabetic
 bus operators.

 If this letter is consistent with our mutual understanding please sign below.

 Sincerely,

 _________________________ _______________________

 Phil Rosenberg, Director Union Representative

 October 8, 1999

 Joe Catricola, President

 ATU Local 1267

 c/o Mass Transit Division

 RE: Letter of Understanding - Clarification of Medical Arbitration and Light Duty

 Dear Mr. Catricola:

 The purpose of this letter is to  document our mutual agreement with regard to medical
 arbitration as described in Article 9, Section 3 and the Light Duty policy.

 1. The  Union and  the County  agree that  any individual  who is  offered or  has the
 opportunity to work light  duty and rejects such  light duty while filing  for medical
 arbitration under Article 9, will not be  considered “held out” of service pursuant to
 Article 9, Section  3. Accordingly,  those individuals would  not be eligible  for the
 fifteen days pay, if the third doctor put the employee back to work.

 2. In the event that an individual does work light duty during medical arbitration and
 such light duty is less than his or her regular scheduled shift, if he or she prevails
 under Article  9, Section  3, that  employee would  be “made  whole” and  be paid  the
 difference between the amount  of time that he  or she actually worked  light duty and
 his or her regularly scheduled shift.

 If this letter is consistent with our mutual understanding, please sign below.

Page 49

 Sincerely,

ATU1267_Broward

 _________________________ _______________________

 Phil Rosenberg, Director Union Representative

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 ARTICLE 49
 SIGNATURE PAGE

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto have caused this Agreement  to be executed and
 signed by their duly authorized representatives, as of this _____ day of _______,1999.

 AMALGAMATED TRANSIT UNION, BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

 LOCAL 1267 BY ITS BOARD OF COUNTY

 COMMISSIONERS

 By_______________________________By______________________

 President Commission Chair

 By_______________________________By________________________

 Vice-President County Administrator

 By_______________________________By________________________

 Bargaining Team Member Director of Human Resources

 By_______________________________By________________________

 Bargaining Team Member Labor Relations Manager

 Back to Table of Contents of
 Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1267 Contract

 Return to Collective Bargaining Agreements

 Return to Human Resources Home Page

Page 50

