Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

15

Language English

Country United States

State

CT

Union IUPA (International Union of Police Officers) AFL-CIO

Local Protective ServicesEmployees Coalition (NP-5) - IUPA/IAFF

Police and detectives 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency State of Connecticut
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2004

Source

http://www.protectiveservices.org/contract.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

PROTECTIVE SERVICES 

[NP-5] 

BARGAINING UNIT 

CONTRACT 

- BETWEEN - 

STATE OF CONNECTICUT 

- AND - 

PROTECTIVE SERVICES 
EMPLOYEES COALITION 

IUPA/IAFF, AFL-CIO 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

EFFECTIVE: JULY 1, 1999                 EXPIRING: JUNE 30, 2004 
 

 

 

TABLE  OF CONTENTS 

Preamble....................................................................................... 1 
Article 1 
Recognition ................................................................................ 1 
Article 2 
Protective Services Bill of Rights.......................................... 3 
Article 3 
Non-Discrimination and Affirmative Action ........................ 6 
Article 4 
No Strikes - No Lockouts......................................................... 6 
Article 5 
Management Rights.................................................................. 7 
Article 6 
Union Security and Payroll Deductions ............................... 8 
Article 7 
Union Rights ............................................................................ 10 
Article 8 
Personnel Records ................................................................. 15 
Article 9 
Service Ratings........................................................................ 18 
Article 10 
Training..................................................................................... 20 
Article 11 
Health Safety ............................................................................ 30 
Article 12 
Health and Safety Committee................................................ 35 
Article 13 
Working Test Period ............................................................... 35 
Article 14 
Seniority .................................................................................... 37 
Article 15 
Order of Layoff ......................................................................... 39 
Article 16 
Grievance Procedure.............................................................. 41 
Article 17 
Dismissal, Suspension, Demotion and Other Discipline48 
Article 18 
Hours of Work, Work Schedules and Overtime................. 52 
i

 

 
Article 19 
Temporary Service in a Higher Class ..................................61 
Article 20 
Compensation ..........................................................................63 
Article 21 
Class Reevaluations...............................................................71 
Article 22 
Permanent Part-Time Employees..........................................74 
Article 23 
Method of Salary Payment......................................................74 
Article 24 
Health Insurance......................................................................75 
Article 25 
Holidays .....................................................................................75 
Article 26 
Pregnancy, Maternal and Parental Leave...........................78 
Article 27 
Vacations...................................................................................79 
Article 28 
Sick Leave and Other Leaves of Absence..........................80 
Article 29 
Personal Leave.........................................................................80 
Article 30 
Leave Accruals.........................................................................82 
Article 31 
Military Leave............................................................................82 
Article 32 
Civil Leave.................................................................................84 
Article 33 
Retirement.................................................................................84 
Article 34 
Bargaining Unit Work .............................................................84 
Article 35 
Shift and Work Location.........................................................85 
Article 36 
Shift Differential.......................................................................87 
Article 37 
Job Titles...................................................................................87 
ii

 

 
Article 38 
Contracting Out....................................................................... 88 
Article 39 
Vehicle Policy........................................................................... 88 
Article 40 
Uniforms .................................................................................... 90 
Article 41 
Travel Reimbursements......................................................... 91 
Article 42 
Hypertension ............................................................................ 91 
Article 43 
Miscellaneous Article............................................................. 93 
Article 44 
Entire Agreement..................................................................... 96 
Article 45 
Supersedence .......................................................................... 96 
Article 46 
Legislative Action ................................................................... 98 
Article 47 
Savings Clause........................................................................ 98 
Article 48 
Meals and Housing ................................................................. 98 
Article 49 
Duration of Agreement........................................................... 99 
Memorandum of Understanding  -  I 
RE:  Donation of Vacation and Personal Leave..............100 
Memorandum of Understanding  -  II 
RE:  Article 7 - Section Seven (c) .......................................100 
Memorandum of Understanding  -  III 
RE:  Article 11 - Section Four..............................................100 
Memorandum of Understanding  -  IV 
RE:  Article 18.........................................................................102 
Memorandum of Understanding  -  V 
RE:  Article 19 - Sections Seven, Eight and Nine...........102 
MMeemmoorraanndduumm  ooff  uunnddeerrssttaannddiinngg  --  VVII 
RRee::  rreevviieeww  ooff  pprreemmiiuumm  ppaayymmeennttss .......................................103 
MMeemmoorraanndduumm  ooff  uunnddeerrssttaannddiinngg  --  VVIIII .............................................. 
RRee  aarrbbiittrraattiioonn  ppaanneell ..............................................................103 
iii

 

 
MMeemmoorraanndduumm  ooff  uunnddeerrssttaannddiinngg  --  VVIIIIII 
RRee  CChhiilldd  AAbbuussee  PPrreevveennttiioonn  AAnndd  TTrreeaattmmeenntt  ((CCAAPPTTAA)) 
DDeeppaarrttmmeenntt  ooff  CChhiillddrreenn  aanndd  FFaammiilliieess  ((DDCCFF))....................103 
State of Connecticut 
Bargaining committee...........................................................105 
Protective Services Employees Coalition 
Bargaining committee...........................................................106 
NP-5 Pay Plans .......................................................................107 

iv

 

 

PREAMBLE 

STATE  OF  CONNECTICUT,  acting  by  and  through  the 
Office of Labor Relations, hereinafter called “the State” or “the 
Employer” and the PROTECTIVE SERVICES EMPLOYEES 
COALITION,  IUPA/IAFF,  AFL-CIO,  hereinafter  called  “the 
Union”. 

WITNESSETH: 
WHEREAS  the  parties  of  this  Agreement  desire  to 
establish  a  state  of  amicable,  understanding  cooperation  and 
harmony, and 

WHEREAS 

this  Agreement  consider 
themselves mutually responsible to improve the public service 
through increased morale, efficiency, and productivity; 

the  parties 

to 

NOW THEREFORE, the parties mutually agree as follows: 

ARTICLE 1 

RECOGNITION 

Section One.  The State of Connecticut herein recognizes 
the Protective Services Employees Coalition, IUPA/IAFF, AFL-
CIO  as  the    exclusive  representatives  of  the  State  employees 
whose job titles were  placed within the following certified unit 
by  the  Connecticut  State  Board    of  Labor  Relations  or  by 
Agreement  of  the  parties:    The  Unit  of  Protective    Services 
Employees,  Case  No.  SE-5953. 
  The  State  furthermore 
acknowledges  that  for  purposes  under  this  Agreement  the 
Employer is the State even though employees are assigned and 
take direction from an agency within which they work. 

Section  Two.    (a)    This  Agreement  shall  pertain  only  to 
those    employees  whose  job  titles  fall  within  the  certification 
above cited.  All  employees except those specifically exempted 
under  Section  5-270  (C.G.S.)    or  by  mutual  consent  of  the 
parties shall be covered by this Agreement.  

  1

 

(b)    This  Agreement  shall  not  apply  to  non-permanent 
employees  defined as those who are appointed on a temporary, 

2

 

  Employees  appointed 

 
emergency,  durational    not  to  exceed  twelve  (12)  months,  or 
seasonal  basis. 
  originally  on  a 
provisional  basis  shall  be  covered  by  the  agreement  provided 
they shall have no right of appeal from termination unless and  
until 
the  merit  examination  and 
appointment    requirements  and  completed  the  working  test 
period.    Persons  serving  a    working  test  period  are  not 
excluded. 

they  have  completed 

Section  Three.    No  job  classification  shall  be  removed 
from  the    bargaining  unit  during  the  term  of  this  Agreement 
without the mutual  consent of the parties, except by order of 
the State Board of Labor  Relations. 

ARTICLE 2 

PROTECTIVE SERVICES BILL OF RIGHTS 

Section One.  Each employee shall be expected to render a 
full and  fair days work in an atmosphere of mutual respect and 
dignity,  and  free    from  significant  abusive  and/or  arbitrary 
conduct. 

Section  Two.    An  employees  off-duty  conduct,  speech, 
beliefs  and  politics  shall  not  in  and  of  themselves,  impact  on 
his/her employment unless clearly job related. 

this  contract 

lead 

  employee  covered  under 

Section Three.  Whenever a Protective Services Bargaining 
is  under 
Unit 
investigation  or  subjected    to  interrogation  for  any  reason 
which  could 
  dismissal, 
disciplinary  action,  or  criminal  charges,  such  investigation  or  
interrogation  shall  be  conducted  as  nearly  as  is  practicable 
under the following conditions: 

to  suspension,  demotion, 

(1)  The interrogation shall be conducted at a time when 
the  employee  is  on  duty,  unless  the  seriousness  of  the 
investigation is of such degree that an immediate interrogation 
is required; 

  3

 

(2)  The employee under investigation shall be informed of 
the  name(s)  and  agency  of  the  person  in  charge  of  the 
investigation and of those conducting the interrogation; 

4

 

 

(3)    Whenever  the  interrogation  relates  to  the  employee 
being  placed  under  arrest,  or  is  likely  to  be  arrested  or  is  a 
suspect  or  target  of  a  criminal  investigation,  he/she  shall  be 
afforded all constitutional rights; 

(4)  An employee shall be entitled to union representation 
at each step of the grievance procedure and all predisciplinary 
hearings; 

(5)    Prior  to  any  disciplinary  hearing  or  predisciplinary 
hearing, involving noncriminal charges against an employee, a 
copy of all complaints and statements will be submitted to the 
accused.  No record of complaint against any employee shall be 
kept  in  an  employee’s  personnel  file  unless  such  record 
includes identification of the complainant; 

(6)  Interrogation sessions shall be for reasonable periods 
and shall  be timed to allow such personal necessities and rest 
periods as are necessary; 

(7)  No employee shall be requested to sign a statement of 
an admission of guilt to be used in any disciplinary proceeding 
without having consulted with a Union representative or having 
signed a written waiver of rights to representation;  

(8)    In  cases  in  which  the  facts,  in  a  claim  against  the 
employee,  if  proven,  would  constitute  criminal  behavior,  the 
employee may refuse to answer questions on the grounds that 
the answer would tend to incriminate him.  If the facts alleged 
would not constitute a crime, if the employee at first refuses to 
answer  questions  on  the  grounds  of  self-incrimination,  the 
employer may specifically order him to do so, in which case, 
the employee shall be required to answer, but the answer will 
be treated as involuntary and may not be used in any criminal 
proceedings against him. 

  5

 

NON-DISCRIMINATION AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION  

ARTICLE 3 

Section  One.    The  parties  herein  agree  that  neither  shall 
discriminate against any employee on the basis of race, color, 
religious creed, sex, age, national origin, ancestry, marital status, 
mental  retardation  or  physical  disability  including,  but  not 
limited to,  blindness, or lawful political activity. 

Section  Two.    Neither  party shall discriminate against an 
employee on  the basis of membership or non-membership or 
lawful activity in behalf of  the exclusive bargaining agent. 

Section  Three. 

  Affirmative  Action. 

  The  parties 
acknowledge the need  for positive and aggressive affirmative 
action, inclusive of upward  mobility programs, to redress the 
effects  of  past  discrimination,  if  any,    whether  intentional  or 
unintentional;  to  eliminate  present  discrimination,  if  any;  to 
prevent further discrimination and to ensure equal opportunity  
in the application of this Agreement.  Problems, either ripe or 
anticipated, which impact upon philosophy and/or directives of 
this    Section  shall  be  appropriate  for  continuing  discussion 
between the  parties, but shall not be subject to the grievance 
procedure. 

Section  Four.    Notwithstanding  any  provision  of  this 
agreement to the contrary, the Employer will have the right and 
duty to take all actions necessary to comply with the provisions 
of the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 2101, et seq. 
(ADA).    Upon  request  the  Employer  will  meet  and  discuss 
specific  concerns  identified  by  the  Union;  however,  this  shall 
not delay any actions taken to comply with the ADA.” 

ARTICLE 4 

NO STRIKES - NO LOCKOUTS 

Section One.   Neither the Union nor any employee shall 

engage in,  induce, support, encourage, or condone a strike, 
6

 

 
sympathy  strike,  work 
  stoppage,  slowdown,  concerted 
withholding of services, sick-out or any  interference with the 
mission of any State agency.  This Article shall be  deemed to 
prohibit the concerted boycott or refusal of overtime work. 

Section  Two.    The  Union  shall  exert  its  best  efforts  to 
prevent  or    terminate  any  violation  of  Section  One  of  this 
Article. 

Section Three.  The employer agrees that during the life of 

this  Agreement there shall be no lockout. 

ARTICLE 5 

MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 

Section  One.   Except as otherwise limited by an express 
provision  of    this  Agreement,  the  State  reserves  and  retains, 
whether exercised or not,  all the lawful and customary rights, 
powers and prerogatives of public  management.  Such rights 
include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  establishing    standards  of 
productivity  and  performance  of  its  employees;  determining  
the  mission  of  an  agency  and  the  methods  and  means 
necessary to fulfill  that mission, including the contracting out 
of or the discontinuation of  services, positions, or programs in 
whole  or  in  part;  the  determination  of    the  content  of  job 
classifications;  the  appointment,  promotion, 
  assignment, 
direction and transfer of personnel; the suspension, demotion,  
discharge or any other appropriate action against its employees; 
the  relief from duty of its employees because of lack of work 
or for other  legitimate reasons; the establishment of reasonable 
work rules; and the taking of all necessary actions to carry out 
its mission in emergencies. 

Section  Two.    Those  inherent  management  rights  not 
restricted by a  specific provision of this Agreement are not in 
any  way,  directly  or    indirectly,  subject  to  the  grievance 
procedure. 

  7

 

ARTICLE 6 

UNION SECURITY AND PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS 

Section  One.    During  the  life  of  this  Agreement,  an 
employee  retains    the  freedom  of  choice  whether  or  not  to 
become  or  remain  a  member  of  the    Union  which  has  been 
designated as the exclusive bargaining agent. 

Section  Two.    Union  dues  and/or  assessments  shall  be 
deducted by the  State employer biweekly from the paycheck 
of  each  employee  who  signs  and    remits  to  the  State  an 
authorization  form.    Such  deduction  shall  be    discontinued 
upon  written  request  of  an  employee  thirty  (30)  days  in 
advance. 

Section Three.  An employee who within thirty (30) days 
after initial  employment in the bargaining unit fails to become a 
member of the Union or  an employee whose membership is 
terminated  for  nonpayment  of  dues  or  who    resigns  from 
membership  shall  be  required  to  pay  an  agency  service  fee  
under Section Four. 

Section  Four.  The State shall deduct the agency service 
fee  biweekly    from  the  paycheck  of  each  employee  who  is 
required  under  Section  5-280(a)    C.G.S.  to  pay  such  fee  as  a 
condition  of  employment,  provided,  however,  no    such 
payment shall be required of an employee whose membership 
is    terminated  for  reasons  other  than  nonpayment  of  dues  or 
who  objects to payment of such fee based on the tenets of a 
religious  sect.    The  amount  of  agency  service  fee  shall  not 
exceed the minimum applicable  dues payable to the exclusive 
bargaining  agent  or  any  employee    organization  constituent 
thereof. 

Section Five.  The amount of dues, assessments or agency 
service fee  deducted under this Article shall be remitted to the 
Treasurer  of  the    Union  as  soon  as  practical  after  the  payroll 

8

 

 
period in which the deduction  is made together with the list of 
employees for whom any such deduction is  made. 

  9

 

Section Six.  No payroll deduction of dues, assessments or 
agency  service fee shall be made from worker’s compensation 
or  for  any  payroll    period  in  which  earnings  received  are 
insufficient to cover the amount of  deduction, nor shall such 
deductions  be  made  from  subsequent  payrolls  to    cover  the 
period in questions (non-retroactive). 

Section Seven.  Payroll deduction of Union dues shall be 
discontinued    for  other  employee  organizations  not  parties  to 
this Agreement. 

Section  Eight.    The  State  employer  shall  continue  its 
practice of  payroll deductions as authorized by employees for 
purposes other than  payment of Union dues or agency service 
fee, provided any such payroll  deduction has been approved 
by the State in advance. 

Section Nine.  The Union shall indemnify the State for any 
liability  or damages incurred by the State in compliance with 
this Article. 

Section  Ten. 

  In  accordance  with  those  procedures 
promulgated by the  Office of the State Comptroller the State 
shall allow for the deduction of  contributions for the union’s 
political action fund. 

ARTICLE 7 

UNION RIGHTS 

Section  One. 

  Employer  representatives  shall  deal 
exclusively with  designated stewards or representatives in the 
processing  of  grievances  or    any  other  aspect  of  contract 
administration. 

Section Two.   The Union may designate up to forty four 
(44)  bargaining    unit  employees  to  serve  as  stewards.    The 
Union  will  furnish  the  State    employer  with  a  list  of  such 
stewards, specifying the jurisdiction of each  and shall keep the 
list current. 

10

 

 
Up  to  ten  (10)  stewards  may  be    designated  by  the  Union  as 
stewards of general jurisdiction. 

Section  Four. 

  Role  of  Steward 

  and/or  stewards  within 

Section  Three.    Access  to  Premises.    Union  staff 
representatives 
their  assigned 
jurisdiction,  shall  be  permitted  to    enter  the  facilities  of  an 
agency at any reasonable time for the purposes  of discussing, 
processing or investigating filed grievances, or fulfilling  its role 
as  collective  bargaining  agent,  provided  that  they  give  notice  
prior  to  arrival,  or  if  that  is  not  possible,  provided  that  they  
immediately  give  notice  of  their  presence  to  the supervisor in 
charge and  do not interfere with the performance of duties. The 
Union  will  furnish  the  State  employer  with  a  list  of  its  staff  
personnel and their jurisdictions, and shall keep the list current. 
in  Processing 
Grievances.  The stewards  will obtain permission from their 
immediate  supervisors  when  they  desire  to    leave  their  work 
assignments  to  properly  and  expeditiously  carry  out  their  
duties in connection with this Agreement.  When contacting an 
employee, the  steward will first report to and obtain permission 
to  see  the  employee  from    his/her  supervisor,  and  such 
permission  will  be  granted  unless  the  work    situation  or  an 
emergency demands otherwise.  If the immediate supervisor  is 
unavailable, permission will be requested from the next level of  
supervision.    Requests  by  stewards  to  meet  with  employees 
and/or employees  to meet with stewards will state the name of 
the  employee  involved,  his    location,  indicating  that  Union 
business is to be discussed, and the  approximate time that will 
be  needed.    Stewards  thus  engaged  will  report    back  to  their 
supervisors on completion of such duties and return to their job 
and  will  suffer  no  loss  of  pay  or  other  benefits  as  a  result 
thereof.   The sufficiency of steward coverage shall be a subject 
of  continuing    consultation  between  the  employer  and  the 
Union.  The Union will cooperate  in preventing abuse of this 
Section. 

  11

 

Section Five.  Bulletin Board.  The State will continue to 
furnish    reasonable  bulletin  board  space  in  each  institution 
which the Union may  utilize for its announcements.  Bulletin 
board space shall not be used for  material that is of a partisan 
political nature or is inflammatory, or  derogatory to the State 
employer or any of its officers or employees.  The  Union shall 
limit its posting of notices and bulletins to such bulletin  board 
space. 

Section  Six.    Access  to  Information.    The  employer 
agrees to provide  the Union, upon request and adequate notice, 
access to materials and  information necessary for the Union to 
fulfill its statutory  responsibility to administer this Agreement.  
The Union shall reimburse  the State for photocopying expense 
at rates endorsed by the State Freedom  of Information Law.  
The Union shall not have access to privileged or  confidential 
information. 

Section Seven.  (a)  Union Business Leave.  The Union 
shall be  entitled to up to 680 hours of paid leave per contract 
year  for  Union  officials,  delegates,  stewards  or  other 
representatives  to  attend  Union  business-related  meetings, 
conventions, training programs, meetings of  national affiliates 
or other affiliates organizations, legislative or agency hearings.  
The Union shall notify the State Office of Labor  Relations of 
the  names,  agencies,  dates  and  number  of  hours  when 
employees are to be released for such Union business, normally 
at least seventy-two (72) hours in advance.  Such release time 
shall  be  granted;  the  Union    agrees  not  to  unduly  deplete 
agency  operations.    If  notice  of  release  is    received  less  than 
seventy two (72) hours in advance, the leave may be denied if 
the  absence  will  unduly  hinder  minimum  operating  needs.  
Time  off  shall  be  deducted  from  the  bank  of  hours.    Up  to 
eighty (80) hours may  be carried over to the next contract year 
and added to that Union business  leave bank of hours.  Said 
bank shall expire at the end of the contract. 

12

 

 

(b)  No more than two (2) employees elected or appointed 
to  a  full-time  office  or  position  with  the  Union  or  a  National 
Affiliate will  be eligible for an unpaid leave of absence not to 
exceed  one  (l)  year.    An  extension  not  to  exceed  one  (l) 
additional year may be granted, subject to the approval of the 
Director of Labor Relations.  Upon return from such leave, the 
State  employer  shall  offer  said  employee  a  position  relatively 
equal to the former position in pay, benefits, and duties, at the 
rates in force at time of return from such leave. 

Upon return from leave, the employee shall have the right 
to purchase back retirement credits for the period of the leave, 
provided  that,  in  addition,  the  employee  or  the  Union 
contribute  the  State’s  share  of  the    cost  of  such  retirement 
credits. 

(c)  The Union President shall be eligible for full-time paid 
leave.  The employer shall pay said employee's full salary and 
benefits subject to reimbursement as follows: 

 

(1)  Cash Reimbursement by the Union to the State of 
Connecticut  seventy  (70)  percent  of  the  cost  of  wages  and 
benefits of said employee paid on a bi-weekly basis.  

 
(2)  This Section Seven (c) shall expire June 30, 2004. 
Section  Eight.    Both  the  employer  and  the  Union  agree 
that every bargaining unit member should be familiar with the 
provisions  of  this  Agreement  and  his/her  rights  and  duties 
under it.  For this reason, the parties will print the Agreement 
and give one (l) copy to each bargaining unit employee.  The 
parties will share the cost of printing the Agreement in booklet 
form.    The  State  employer  will  provide  each  new  employee 
with a copy of the collective bargaining agreement then in force 
and  will  furnish  said  employee  with  the  name(s)  of  his/her 
steward(s). 

Section  Nine.    Use  of  Facilities.    The  Union  shall  be 
permitted use of the Connecticut Police Academy auditorium 

  13

 
and/or classrooms for meetings, subject to its availability.  The 
Union  shall  reimburse  the  State  for  any  incidental  costs 
incurred  

14

 

 
by such use.  Use of facilities under this Section shall not be 
unfairly denied. 

Section  Ten.    Wherever  feasible,  stewards  shall  not  be 
assigned  work  loads  during  Union  business  leave  or  steward 
leave. 

Section Eleven.  Stewards not to exceed forty-four (44) in 
number, who have permanent status in State service, shall be 
deemed  to  have  the  highest  seniority  within  their  job 
classification  for  purpose  of  layoff  selection  and  involuntary 
transfer. 

Section  Twelve.    Stewards  assigned  State  vehicles  shall 
retain the right to use their vehicle on steward business.  To the 
extent practicable, employees who are assigned State vehicles 
shall retain the right to use their assigned vehicles to and from 
Union meetings, hearings, and training sessions, provided such 
activities  directly  precede  or  follow  the  Employee’s  work 
schedule. 

ARTICLE 8 

Section  One. 

PERSONNEL RECORDS 
  An  employee’s  “personnel  file”  or 
“personnel record” is defined as that which is maintained at the 
agency  level,  exclusive  of  any  other  file  or  record,  provided, 
however, in certain agencies which do not maintain personnel 
files  or  records  at  the  agency  level,  the  defined  file  or  record 
shall be that which is maintained at the institution level. 

Section  Two.    An employee  covered hereunder shall, on 
his/her  request,  be  permitted  to  examine  and  copy,  at  his/her 
expense,  any  and  all  materials  in  his/her  personnel  file,  other 
than  preemployment  material  or  any  other  material  that  is 
confidential  or  privileged  under  law.    The  State  employer 
reserves  the  right  to  require  its  designee  to  be  present  while 

  15

 
such  file  is  being  inspected  or  copied.    The  Union  may  have 
access to  

16

 

 
any  employee’s 
authorization by the appropriate employee. 

records  upon  presentation  of  written 

Section  Three.    No  new  material  derogatory  to  an 
employee shall be placed in his/her personnel file unless he/she 
or the Union steward had an opportunity to sign it (indicating 
receipt  of  such  material)  and  has  received  a  copy  of  such 
material.    Notices  of  proven  and/or  accepted  discipline  and 
stipulated  agreements  while  containing  possible  negative 
inferences are not deemed derogatory material for purposes of 
this Article and shall be included in the personnel file. 

Within thirty (30) days of receipt, an employee may file a 
written rebuttal to such materials or request that such material 
not subsequently merged in any service rating be voided from 
the record.  For purposes of this Section VOIDED SHALL BE 
DEFINED AS: 1) the document has been removed and placed 
in another non-personnel file, 2) no negative presumption can 
be  drawn  from  the  document,  and  3)  the  document  is  not 
usable in the future as a reference or a document. 

Section Four.  This Article shall not be deemed to prohibit 
supervisors  from  maintaining  written  notes  or  records  of 
Employee’s performance for the purpose of preparing service 
ratings.    However,  such  written  notes  or  records  shall  not  be 
admissible in any appeal unless the material has been included 
in  the  Employee’s  personnel  file  in  a  manner  consistent with 
this Article. 

Section  Five.    When  an  employee  seeks  access  to  his 
personnel file, the employer shall provide time off, charged as 
work time to travel to the Agency Office to examine the file or 
have  the  file  or  copies  of  its  contents  transferred  to  the 
Employee’s work site for inspection in accordance with Section 
Two. 

  17

 

ARTICLE 9 

Section  One. 

SERVICE RATINGS 
  The  annual  service  ratings  shall  be 
completed  at  least  three  (3)  months  prior  to  the  Employee’s 
annual 
increase  date  and  otherwise  shall  comply  with 
Regulation 5-237-l.  A service rating will be conducted by the 
Employee’s immediate supervisor or a supervisor familiar with 
the  Employee’s  work  and  deemed  to  be  qualified  to  rate  the 
employee. 

A rating of “unsatisfactory” in one (l) category or of “fair” 
in  two  (2)  categories  shall  constitute  a  rating  of  “less  than 
good”.    Prior  to  issuing  an  “unsatisfactory”  service  rating, 
supervisors  shall  forewarn  or  notify  the  employee  of  any 
deficiency.  When an employee is rated “unsatisfactory” in any 
category,  the  rating  supervisor  shall  state  reasons,  and,  if 
practicable,  suggestions  for  improvement.    All  service  ratings 
less  than  good  must  be  discussed  with  the  employee  at  an 
informal  meeting  to  be  scheduled  by  the  rating  supervisor, 
normally within seven (7) days after the employee has seen the 
report.    For  the  purposes  of  deciding  eligibility  for  an  annual 
increment  (step  raise),  a  single  “unsatisfactory”  rating  or  two 
(2)  category  ratings  of  “fair”  may  be  considered  grounds  for 
denial of such step. 

Section Two.  Disputes over service ratings may be subject 
to  the  grievance  and  arbitration  procedure.    In  any  such 
arbitration, the arbitrator shall not substitute his/her judgment 
for  that  of  the  evaluator  in  applying  the  relevant  evaluation 
standards  unless  the  evaluator  can  be  shown  to  have  acted 
arbitrarily,  capriciously,  or  without  supportive  documentation.  
It is understood that only “fair” and/or “unsatisfactory” ratings 
in any category shall be grievable. 

Section Three.  Service Rating forms will be provided for 
the  annual  evaluation.    These  forms  shall  contain  space  for 

18

 

 
constructive statements or suggestions for improvement.  Such 
statements shall be consistent with the rating. 

  19

 

ARTICLE 10 
TRAINING 

Section One.  The employer recognizes its responsibility to 
provide relevant training for each new employee and continue 
on-the-job training. 

Section  Two.    Protective  Services  Training  and  Tuition 
Fund.  Effective the contract year commencing July 1, 1995 and 
each contract year thereafter during the term of this contract the 
State shall allocate $75,000.00 to a Protective Services Training 
and Tuition Fund for the purpose of enabling bargaining unit 
employees to participate in relevant outside training programs, 
workshops,  seminars,  vocational 
to 
reimburse employees under the Tuition Reimbursement section 
of this Article. 

training  courses  or 

The  State  will  honor  reimbursement  claims  submitted  by 
unit  employees  for  the  contract  year  1994-5,  if  such  claims 
meet  the  contractual  standards,  and  to  the  extent  that  the 
aggregate  of  such  claims  shall  not  exceed  the  permissible 
limitations.  Because there is no identified "fund" for contract 
year  1994-5,  there  shall  be  no  roll  over  of  unexpended  funds 
into contract year 1995-6. 

(a)    There  shall  be  established  a  Protective  Services 
Education  and  Training  Committee,  consisting  of  six  (6) 
knowledgeable  members,  with  right  of  substitution,  three  (3) 
appointed  by  the  Union  and  three  (3)  by  the  State.    Said 
Committee shall be responsible for identifying relevant training 
programs, seminars, workshops and vocational training courses 
which  would  be  beneficial  to  employees  and  the  State 
Employer. 

(b)  Said Education and Training Committee shall meet at 
least  once  each  month  for  the  purpose  of  expeditiously 
processing,  approving,  rejecting  or  tabling  training  requests.  

20

 

 
The Committee will attempt to accommodate relevant training 
requests.  The Committee shall also assist in scheduling  

  21

to  attend  such 

 
employees 
training  programs,  seminars, 
workshops  or  vocational  training  courses,  as  necessary.    A 
quorum  at  any  scheduled  meeting  of  the  Protective  Services 
Education and Training Committee shall be four (4) members.  
A  consensus  (majority  vote)  of  those  Committee  members 
present  shall  constitute  agreement  on  any  issue.    Failure  to 
obtain a consensus shall constitute a deadlock.  The decision of 
the Committee shall be binding upon any agency, except that 
the  Employer  may  deny  release  time  where  an  emergency 
staffing situation precludes such attendance and a replacement 
cannot  be  obtained  for  the  employee  being  assigned  to  the 
training. Committee members may attend all meetings without 
loss of pay or benefits, and attendance shall be considered as 
time  worked  as  a  part  of  the  employee’s  regular  schedule.  
During the regular monthly meeting day, committee members 
shall be granted up to one (l) full work day of release time when 
necessary to accomplish the committee responsibilities. 

(c)  The parties shall establish a list of mutually acceptable 
permanent  umpires  who  shall  be  knowledgeable  in Protective 
Services training needs, who shall act as umpires in the event of 
a deadlock among Committee members.  Said umpire, picked 
on  a  rotational  basis  from  the  list,  will  vote  to  break  the 
deadlock  after  hearing  all  arguments  pro  and  con  concerning 
the specific issue.  In the event that the umpire is not available 
within  five  (5)  days,  the  matter  will  be  referred  to  the  next 
umpire  on  the  list.    The  decision  of  the  mutually  appointed 
umpire  shall  be  binding  upon  both  the  State  and  the  Union.  
The umpire’s decision shall be rendered within one (l) day of 
the presentation of arguments. 

Any and all established expenses of the permanent umpire 

shall be shared equally by the Union and the State. 

(d)    Bargaining  unit  members  who  wish  to  participate  in 
relevant training programs, workshops, seminars, or vocational 

22

 

 
training courses, other than those qualifying under the tuition 
reimbursement program, may apply for such training through  

  23

 
their  respective  Agencies  on  an  approved  request  form, 
identifying the program, the date(s), the location and the cost of 
participation,  including  fees  and  relevant  expenses.    Such 
employees should indicate the relevancy of the training and the 
expected benefit to both the employee and the Agency. 

(e)    Agency  representatives  designated  in  advance  shall 
immediately  forward  such  applications  and  requests  to  the 
Protective  Services  Education  and  Training  Committee  for 
review  and  approval  or  disapproval  on  the  basis  of  the 
relevancy of the training to the employee’s job, need for such 
training, agency recommendations, potential benefits and skills 
to  be  gained,  and  equity  in  distribution  of  such  training 
programs  among  bargaining  unit  employees  who  submit 
requests within that specific agency. 

(f)    When  forwarding  training  request  forms  to  the 
Protective  Services  Education  and  Training  Committee,  the 
Agency shall identify the total direct cost to be incurred for the 
training, including fees, relevant expenses and overtime salary 
of the replacement, if any, directly attributable to the training, 
which  costs  shall  be  deducted  from  the  training  and  tuition 
fund.    The  Committee  shall  notify  the  employee  and  the 
Agency  immediately  in  writing  of  its  approval  or  denial  with 
any necessary explanations.  Except as outlined in subsection 
(b)  herein,  or  in  the  event  of  an  unforeseen  emergency,  the 
Agency,  when  notified  by  the  Committee,  will  expeditiously 
implement and comply with such Committee decision. 

(g)    Once  the  training  and  tuition  fund  is  exhausted,  the 
State  shall  not  be  obligated  under  this  Article  to  fund  any 
additional training or tuition reimbursement.  Up to $5,000 of 
unexpended funds may be carried over and added to the next 
year’s funding.  Additionally, funds committed for training or 
tuition reimbursement which take place in one fiscal year shall 
carry over into the next fiscal year in order to allow payment of 
claims for prior year training.  The fund shall end upon  
24

 

 
expiration of the contract, except previously committed funds 
shall carry over for one hundred twenty (120) days to allow for 
final  payment.    During  this  carryover  period,  agencies  shall 
process  claims  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  receipt  from  the 
Committee. 

(h)    Sufficient  copies  of  the  Protective  Services  Training 
and Tuition Fund Policy regarding outside training and  tuition 
reimbursement  shall  be  distributed  through  State  Agencies  to 
all bargaining unit employees together with sufficient approved 
request forms. 

(i)    It  is  understood  that  any  employee  who  attends  a 
training  program,  seminar,  workshop  or  vocational  training 
course  on  any  day  in  which  he/she  is  normally  scheduled  to 
work, will be paid his regular normal rate of pay for all hours 
normally worked for such training day and said normal pay will 
not  be  deducted  from  the  Protective  Services  Training  and 
Tuition  Fund.    Travel  time  experienced  when  engaged  in 
training shall be considered as time worked where the commute 
exceeds the normal commute for the employee, however only 
the travel in excess of thirty (30) minutes shall be considered as 
time worked.  Training during any day shall mean the full day 
off  without  loss  of  pay  or  benefits  regardless  of  the  shift 
assigned provided that the training is of at least four (4) hours 
duration.    An  employee  who  is  assigned  on  an  unscheduled 
workweek will receive one (l) days pay as time worked for each 
day of attendance at any training program, seminar, workshop 
or vocational training course, provided that the training is of at 
least four (4) hours duration on any such day; if less than four 
(4)  hours  duration,  sufficient  time  off  will  be  granted.    The 
regular pay shall not be deducted from the Protective Services 
Training and Tuition Fund. 

(j)  The cost of any employer required training, including 
training for entry level or new employees, shall not be deducted 
from the Protective Services Training and Tuition Fund. 

  25

 

(k)    Except  as  specifically  provided  herein,  nothing  shall 
prohibit an agency from continuing to fund relevant training or 
to  carry  out  its  obligation  to  properly  train  personnel  as  is 
current practice.  This Section is not intended to have any effect 
upon  or  impact  upon  any  Special  Act,  Statute,  or  Agency 
Training budget which is current practice. 

(l)    It  shall  be  the  obligation  of  the  Protective  Services 
Education and Training Committee to encourage and promote 
the access and availability of federal or private funds whenever 
possible and to work with agency personnel with responsibility 
in this area toward this goal. 

(m)    Where  vehicles  are  available,  employees  who  are 
attending  training  programs  within  the  State  of  Connecticut 
shall be allowed to use the vehicles.  Use of vehicles for outside 
the  State  of  Connecticut  shall  be  at  the  discretion  of  the 
employer.    No  costs  under  this  subsection  will  be  deducted 
from the Protective Services Training and Tuition Fund. 

(n)  Tuition Reimbursement.  The Employer shall pay up 
to seventy-five (75%) percent of the cost for tuition, books, and 
lab  fees  for  any  bargaining  unit  employee  who  attends  any 
accredited institution of higher education, such reimbursements 
to  be  deducted  from  the  Protective  Services  Training  and 
Tuition  Fund.    It  is  understood  that  the  employee  must 
successfully  complete  the  course  in  order  to  be  reimbursed.  
Requests  for  payment  to  the  employee  under  this  subsection 
shall be processed upon submission of receipts and/or records 
to the Protective Services Education and Training Committee. 

(o)    Nothing  in  this  Article  shall  be  interpreted  as 
precluding  advance  payment  of  conference  and  training  fees 
and  expenses  in  accordance  with  existing  State  Travel  Rules 
and Regulations. 

26

 

 

Section Three.  (a)  Law enforcement personnel who are 
issued  weapons  by  their  employer  or  have  access  to  State-
provided weapons shall have access to the firearms range on an  

  27

 
annual  basis  for  the  purpose  of  practicing  and  qualifying  for 
firearms  use. 
  The  employer  shall  provide  sufficient 
ammunition,  sixty  (60)  rounds  for  practice  and  sixty  (60) 
rounds for qualification.  Such employees shall be granted time 
off to obtain this training. 

(b)    In  addition,  time  off  shall  be  granted  to  all  law 
enforcement personnel assigned rifles and/or shotguns for the 
purpose of practice and  familiarization with such weapon, on 
an  annual  basis.    The  employer  shall  provide  sufficient 
ammunition, twelve (12) rounds per weapon for each employee 
for the purpose of practice and qualifying. 

(c)    Additionally,  the  employer,  in  cooperation  with  the 
Protective  Services  Education  and  Training  Committee,  shall 
provide night time or nightfire training on a bi-annual basis for 
all  law  enforcement  personnel  who  are  assigned  to  carry 
weapons  by  their  employer  or  who  have  access  to  agency 
weapons.  The employer shall provide sufficient ammunition, 
thirty-six (36) rounds for practice and thirty-six (36) rounds for 
familiarization  for  such  training.    Such  employees  shall  be 
granted  time  off  to  obtain  this  training.    It  is  understood  that 
any additional costs incurred by the employer by providing this 
training shall be deducted from the Protective Services Training 
and Tuition Fund. 

(d)  All law enforcement personnel may have access to the 
firearms range at other times for practice at their own expense, 
provided that:  (l) space is available; (2) a State Police Range 
Officer is present for the purpose of supervision; and (3) at a 
firearms  range  other  than  State  Police,  a  Protective Services 
Range Officer must be present. 

Section  Four.    Both  the  State  of  Connecticut  and  the 
Union recognize the need for continuous in-service training as 
being beneficial to the employer, the employees and the public; 
therefore, except as outlined under the “Protective Services  

28

 

 
Training  and  Tuition  Fund”,  the  employer  retains  the  right  to 
determine training needs, programs, procedures, and to select 
employees  for  training.    The  employer  agrees  to  endeavor  to 
provide relevant in-service training in the following areas: 

(a)    Send  all  new  Motor  Vehicle  Inspectors  through  a 
course  of  instruction  appropriate  to  meet  the  inspection, 
examination  and  law  enforcement  responsibilities  of  said 
classification; 

(b)    Provide  Department  of  Environmental  Protection 
personnel  assigned  to  fire  fighting  duties  an  annual  training 
course; 

(c)  Send all new full-time fire fighters to the Connecticut 
Fire Academy for required and appropriate training.  New hires 
who have achieved this training or equivalent training shall not 
be required to attend the Academy program.  However, where 
there  is  a  legitimate  issue  over  the  qualifications  of  a  newly 
hired  firefighter  a  skills  assessment  shall  be  required.    Said 
assessment  will  be  conducted  by  the  Commission  on  Fire 
Prevention  and  Control  (CFPC).    The  CFPC  will  render  an 
opinion  on  the  training  need  for  the  new  hire  (whether  the 
Recruit  Training  Program  is  needed). 
  The  agency  will 
implement said recommendation. 

(d) 

in-service 

training  program 

  Establish  an 

for 
Conservation  Enforcement  Officers  which  shall  attempt  to 
include search and seizure, wildlife identification, interpretation 
of  pertinent 
surveillance  and 
investigative techniques; 

law  enforcement 

laws, 

(e)  Make every effort to send Protective Services Trainees 
(Police) to the Police Academy within eight (8) months of their 
employment; 

(f)    Provide  in-service  training  for  fire  fighters  which 
attempts  to  encompass  National  Fire  Protection  Association 
Standards; 

  29

 

(g)    Provide  in-service training for other law enforcement 
personnel which attempts to include where appropriate, search 
and  seizure, 
laws,  accident 
investigation, defensive tactics, investigative techniques and law 
enforcement surveillance. 

interpretation  of  pertinent 

The  Union  may  make  recommendations  in  this  area and 

shall have these recommendations expeditiously investigated. 

ARTICLE 11 

HEALTH SAFETY 
  The  employer 

Section  One. 

to  all 
recommendations regarding improvement of apparently unsafe 
or unhealthy conditions.  Once the employer determines that an 
unsafe or unhealthy condition exists, it will attempt to alleviate 
or otherwise remedy the situation. 

is 

receptive 

Except as provided elsewhere in this Article, disputes over 
unsafe  or  unhealthy  working  conditions  shall  be  processed 
through the Labor Department for compliance with OSHA or 
otherwise  with  the  Protective  Services  Health  and  Safety 
Committee. 

Disputes over unsafe or unhealthy working conditions may 
be  processed  under  the  grievance  procedure,  but  shall  not  be 
arbitrable  unless  Connecticut  OSHA  has  specifically declined 
jurisdiction  or  by  agreement  of  the  parties.    In  any  such 
arbitration,  the  arbitrator  shall  have  no  authority  to  impose  a 
remedy  which  requires  the  hiring  of  additional  staff.    The 
arbitrator  shall  not  substitute  his/her  judgment  for  that of the 
employer in setting law enforcement weapons policy, but shall 
specifically retain the power to issue a cease and desist order 
where  an  alteration  of  an  existing  policy  impacts  negatively 
upon the health and/or safety of the bargaining unit personnel.  
The arbitrator shall be obligated to consider the impact of any 
award with respect to an agency budget as well as the effect of 

30

 

 
the decision upon employee safety, protection and morale, and 
shall  

  31

 
balance  the  need  for  decisions  which  have  significant  impact 
with  the  tender  of  evidence  indicating  a  clear  and  present 
danger of serious injury.  In all cases hereunder, the arbitrator 
shall  render  the  remedy  portion  of  his  decision  ten  (10)  days 
after  the  mailing  of  the  arbitral  award  to  the  parties  to  permit 
negotiations over the remedy. 

Section  Two.    Weather  Extremes.  It is understood that 
some  Protective  Services  employees  are  required  to  work 
during weather extremes.  Under such extremes, the employer, 
where  practicable,  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to  protect  the 
well-being  of  employees,  e.g.,  by  curtailing  work,  providing 
additional or extended rest periods. 

(a)    The  Union  may  designate  two  (2)  bargaining  unit 
members  to  meet  with  the  Department  of  Motor  Vehicle 
Officials to investigate the feasibility of providing shelter (either 
permanent  or  temporary)  and  adequate  lighting  at  Motor 
Vehicle  work  locations  which  currently  do  not  have  such 
facilities.  On or after September l, 1980, the Union, but not any 
employee, may submit unresolved issues involving  the health 
and  safety  of  employees  directly  to  Step  III  of  the  grievance 
and arbitration procedure. 

(b)    Whenever  Department  of  Environmental  Protection 
employees  are  working  fish  ponds  at  hatcheries  below  15 
degrees, supervisors shall be cognizant of conditions and shall 
provide  necessary  breaks,  consistent  with  agency  operating 
needs. 

Section  Three.    All work areas shall have drinking water 
within  reasonable  access  which  meets  all  health  standards  as 
drinking water.  To the extent practicable, all general employee 
reporting areas shall have toilets and sinks. 

Section Four.  The parties recognize that law enforcement 
personnel are sometimes given assignments in which there is a 
recognized threat of possible violence, e.g., felonies in progress,  

32

 

 
fights,  drunk  or  disorderly  persons,  transporting  prisoners, 
burglar or holdup alarms.  Whenever possible, at least two (2) 
officers  shall  be  assigned  to  any  incident  in  which  there  is  a 
recognized threat of possible violence, e.g., felonies in progress, 
fights,  drunk  or  disorderly  persons,  transporting  prisoners, 
burglar  or  holdup  alarms.    This  provision  shall  not  prevent  a 
single  officer  from  responding  to  incidents  which  require  a 
rapid  response  in  order  to  protect  life  or  property;  however, 
each  agency  shall  prepare  an  operating  scheme  for  the 
provision of backup support, which shall be available as soon 
as possible to all personnel. 

Section Five.   To the extent possible, the employer shall 
provide  each  fire  fighting  employee  with  modern  safety 
equipment and accessories necessary for the efficient and safe 
performance of their duties and shall replace such equipment 
on an as needed basis. 

Section  Six. 

  Where  necessary,  emergency  vehicles, 
including  police  and  law  enforcement  vehicles  shall  be 
equipped with acceptable emergency lights which provide full 
visibility when stopped on highways and when responding to 
emergencies. 

Section Seven.  Motor Vehicle Inspectors who are issued 
weapons  and  who  are  assigned  investigative  duties  shall  be 
permitted  to  carry  personal  weapons,  provided  the  sidearm 
accepts the prescribed department issued ammunition and that 
the  employee  obtains  a  safety  clearance  from  S.P.B.I.  for  the 
weapon.    Airport  Police  Officers  at  Bradley  International 
Airport may carry personal sidearms for duty use provided the 
sidearm accepts the prescribed department issued ammunition 
and  that  each  member  obtains  a  safety  clearance  from  State 
Police Range Officer for the weapon to be worn. 

  33

 

Section  Eight.    Protective  Services  Trainee  (Police)  shall 
not  be  assigned  to  law  enforcement  duties  without  proper 
supervision.  To the extent provided by current practice, 
Protective Services Trainees (Fire) shall not be assigned to fire 
fighting without proper supervision. 

Section  Nine.    Prior  to  being  assigned  a  sidearm,  an 
employee shall be properly trained and qualified in the use of 
such weapon. 

Section Ten.  No vehicle assigned to a Protective Services 
tires. 
Unit  employee  shall  be  equipped  with  recapped 
Replacement tires shall meet federal standards for the vehicle 
on which they are mounted. 

Section  Eleven.    The  practice  shall  be  to  use  radio  call 
signals  and  numbers  rather  than  last  names  for  conversation 
between Conservation Enforcement Officers. 

Section  Twelve.    (a)    Canine  Control  Officers  shall  be 

provided with proper rubber boots and raincoats. 

(b)    Where  Building  and  Grounds  Patrol  personnel  are 
subject to extended exposure to inclement weather, they shall 
be provided with proper rubber boots. 

Section  Thirteen.    Motor  Vehicle  Inspectors  shall  be 
provided with proper inspection equipment.  When equipment 
is broken or not working properly, the inspector shall submit a 
written request for the equipment to be repaired.  The employer 
agrees to expeditiously respond to such requests. 

Section  Fourteen.    The  employer  shall, by November 1, 
1979, provide a backup or reserve patrol vehicle, which shall be 
properly  equipped,  for  the  police  department  at  Connecticut 
Valley Hospital. 

Section  Fifteen. 

  All  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection Park Patrolmen and Unit Managers shall be trained 
in the use of the Prosecutor Night Stick. 

34

 

 

Section Sixteen.  Motor Vehicle Inspector workloads will 
be  gauged  to  what  can  reasonably  be  expected  to  be 
accomplished during an assigned shift. 

Section Seventeen.  The employer, in cooperation with the 
Union, shall develop a planned program of replacing all unsafe 
weapons holsters as soon as possible. 

ARTICLE 12 

HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE 

There shall be established a Protective Services Health and 
Safety Committee, consisting of eight (8) members with right 
of  substitution:  four  (4)  appointed  by  the  Union  and  four  (4) 
appointed by the State.  The Committee shall meet at least once 
per  month  or  as  necessary  to  review  alleged  health  or  safety 
problems  brought  to  its  attention.    The  Committee  may  also 
investigate problems on its own. 

Members shall be released to attend meetings without loss 
of pay or benefits and attendance shall be considered as time 
worked as part of the employees regular schedule which shall 
include travel time to and from committee meetings. 
findings 

the 
Commissioner of Administrative Services and the appropriate 
agency officials who will take all appropriate steps to comply 
with Article 11. 

The  Committee 

report 

shall 

its 

to 

the 

Within 

the 
Committee may employ the services of independent experts to 
conduct studies of alleged problems. 

framework  of  available 

resources 

ARTICLE 13  

WORKING TEST PERIOD  

Section One.  The Working Test Period shall be deemed an 
extension  of 
  Therefore,  a 
determination of unsatisfactory performance during a Working  

the  examination  process. 

  35

 
Test Period shall be tantamount to a failure of the competitive 
exam. 

Section Two.  (a)  The Working Test Period for classes in 
the Protective Services Unit shall be six (6) months.  Within ten 
(10) days preceding the termination of the Working Test period, 
and at such other times as the Commissioner of Administrative 
Services  determines,  the  appointing  authority  shall  report  to 
said  Commissioner  of  Administrative  Services  whether  such 
employee is able and willing to perform the duties in a manner 
so as to merit permanent appointment.  At any time during the 
Working  Test  Period,  after  fair  trial,  the  appointing  authority 
may remove any employee if, in the opinion of such appointing 
authority,  the  working  test  indicates  that  such  employee  is 
unable  or  unwilling  to  perform  his/her  duties  so  as  to  merit 
continuance in such position and shall forthwith report his/her 
action  to  the  Commissioner  of  Administrative  Services.    The 
Working  Test  Period  may,  with 
the 
Commissioner of Administrative Services, be extended on an 
individual basis for a definite period of time not to exceed six 
(6)  months  at  any  time.    At  any  time,  an  employee  on  a 
promotional Working Test Period may be granted the option of 
returning to his original position or a comparable position if the 
original position is not available. 

the  approval  of 

(b)    Any  employee  who  transfers,  is  transferred,  or  is 
promoted to a position which requires a Working Test Period 
shall  be  advised  by  the  immediate  supervisor  of  his/her 
performance at the midway point of the Working Test Period.  
At the employee’s request, such progress report shall be put in 
writing within ten (10) working days. 

 

(1)    If  the  employee’s  performance  is  “less  than 
good”,  the  immediate  supervisor  must  offer  suggestions  for 
improvement if requested by the employee.  These suggestions 
shall be reduced to writing within two (2) weeks. 

36

 

 

 

(2)    If  at  the  end  of  the  Working  Test  Period  the 
employee’s  performance  in  the  new  position  is  rated  as 
unsatisfactory, he/she must be returned to the previous position 
or  a  comparable  position  without  any  loss  of  benefits  or 
seniority rights. 

Section Three.  The Working Test Period shall commence 
on  the  date  of  appointment  from  the  employment  list  if  the 
position  is  competitive.  Otherwise,  the  Working  Test  Period 
shall  commence  on 
the  date  of  original  permanent 
appointment. 

Section  Four.    (a)  Dismissal of an employee during the 
initial Working Test Period shall not be subject to the grievance 
procedure.  However, if requested, an employee who does not 
successfully complete the initial Working Test Period shall be 
entitled  to  a  conference  with  the  agency  head  or  designee  to 
discuss the reasons for such failure. 

(b)    Dismissal  of  an  employee  during  a  promotional 
Working Test Period shall be subject to the grievance procedure 
through Step III, provided, however, that the burden shall be on 
the  employee  to  show  patent  unfairness  of  the  Working  Test 
period due to evaluator bias or variance from the pertinent job 
specification. 

ARTICLE 14 
SENIORITY 

Section  One.    Seniority  shall  be  defined  as  total  State 
service for all purposes under this Agreement except, for  shift 
and work location (Article 35) and layoff (Article 15).  For all 
purposes  set  forth  in  Articles  15  and  35,  seniority  shall  be 
defined as bargaining unit seniority in any capacity.  In matters 
where  tiebreaking  may  be  required  to  determine  which 
employee is senior the following shall apply: 

  37

 

1.  Time in Rank (Trainee time is included as time in the 

target class) 

38

 

 

2.  Time in Agency  
3.  Coin Toss  
Section Two.  Seniority shall not be computed until after 

completion of the Working Test Period. 

Section  Three.    State  service  while  working  in  a  trainee 
class  shall  not  accrue  until  permanent  appointment  after 
completion of the training, whereupon it shall be retroactively 
applied to include such service. 

Section Four.    Seniority shall be deemed broken by:  
(a)    termination  of  employment  caused  by  resignation, 

dismissal or retirement; 

(b)    failure  to  report  for  five  (5)  working  days  without 

authorization. 

Credit for seniority up to a break in service may be restored 
to an employee who returned to service within one(1) year of a 
service break, but will apply automatically to an employee who 
is reemployed from layoff.  Restoration of seniority shall not be 
arbitrarily withheld. 

Section  Five.    Seniority  Lists.    Seniority  lists  shall  be 

maintained annually. 

ARTICLE 15 

ORDER OF LAYOFF 

Section One.  (a)  No employee shall be dismissed or laid 
off  from  his/her  position  because  of  lack  of  work,  economy, 
insufficient appropriation, change in departmental organization, 
or abolition of position except in compliance with this Article. 

(b)  Except as otherwise provided in Section 2 or in Article 
7, Section Eleven (Union Rights), the employee with the least 
seniority within the bargaining unit at the agency affecting the 
layoff shall be selected for layoff. 

  39

 

Section  Two.    Seniority  by  Class.    (a)  For purpose of 
layoff selection within classification seniority shall be defined 
by Article 14, Section One (bargaining unit seniority). 

(b)    Special  Skills.    Five  percent  (5%)  of  the  employees 
(not less than one person) to be laid off within a class within an 
agency shall be exempt from the seniority factor when the State 
determines that there is a need for special skills.  “Special skills” 
refers  to  jobs  difficult  to  fill  with  a  replacement  except  after 
extensive  training.    Where  practical,  the  State  will  attempt  to 
meets  its  “special  skills”  requirements  be  exempting  the 
employees  with  the  highest  seniority  among  employees with 
the same special skills. 

Management decisions on special skills shall be subject to 
expedited  arbitration  provided,  however,  that  no  back  pay 
remedy shall accrue to any individual employee. 

(d) 

  An  employee  whose 

last  service  rating  was 
unsatisfactory shall be treated for layoff purposes as having lost 
one (1) year of seniority. 

Section Three.  The State employer shall give an employee 
not less than six (6) weeks written notice of layoff, stating the 
reason  for  such  action.    Such  notice  does  not  apply  to  a 
bumpee  under  Section  Four. 
  The  Commissioner  of 
Administrative  Services  shall  arrange  to  have  the  employee 
transferred to a vacancy in the same or comparable class of any 
other position which, in the judgement of the State employer, 
the employee is qualified to fill within the department, agency 
or institution in which the employee works.  If the employee 
refuses  to  accept  the  transfer,  an  eligible  employee  may 
exercise bumping rights as specified in Section Four. 

Section  Four.    Bumping.  In lieu of layoff an employee 
may  bump  into  a  lower  class  within  the  same  general 
classification series within the department, agency, or institution 
in which the employee works.  The bumper shall bump the 

40

 

 
employee with the lowest seniority in such lower class with less 
seniority than the bumper. 

The bumper shall be paid at the rate closest to the rate paid 
at the time of layoff however, the bumper shall not be paid at a 
rate higher than his/her prior rate. 

ARTICLE 16 

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 

Section  One.    Definition.    Grievance.    A  grievance  is 
defined  as,  and  limited  to,  a  written  complaint  involving  an 
alleged  violation  of  or  a  dispute  involving  the  application  or 
interpretation  of  a  specific  provision  of  this  Agreement 
inclusive  of  letters  of  understanding  entered  into by the State 
and Union as clarification of cited contractual provisions. 

Section  Two.    Format.    Grievances  shall  be  filed  on 
mutually  agreed  forms  which  specify:    (a)  the  facts;  (b)  the 
issues; (c) the date of the violation alleged; (d) the controlling 
contract provision; and/or letter of understanding; and (e) the 
remedy or relief sought. 

A  grievance  may  be  amended  up  to  the  time  of  filing  at 
Step 2 of the grievance procedure as long as the factual basis of 
the complaint is not materially altered. 

Section Three.  Grievant.  A Union representative, with or 
without the aggrieved employee, may submit a grievance, and 
the Union may in appropriate cases submit an “institutional” or 
“general”  grievance  in  it’s  own  behalf.    When  individual 
employee(s)  or  group  of  employees  elect(s)  to  submit  a 
grievance  without  Union 
the  union’s 
representative  or  steward  shall  be  notified  of  the  pending 
grievance, shall be provided a copy thereof, and shall have the 
right to be present at any discussions of the grievance, except 
that if the employee does not wish to have the steward present, 
the steward shall not attend the meeting but shall be provided 

representation, 

  41

 
with  a  copy  of  the  written  response  to  the  grievance.    The 
steward  shall  be  entitled  to  receive  from  the  employer  all 
documents pertinent to the disposition of the grievance and to 
file statements of position. 

Section  Four.    Informal  Resolutions.    The  grievance 
procedure outlined herein is designed to facilitate resolution of 
disputes  at  the  lowest  possible  level  of  the  procedure.    It  is 
therefore urged that the parties attempt informal resolution of 
all disputes and to avoid the formal procedures. 

Section Five.  A grievance shall be deemed waived unless 
submitted at Step I within thirty (30) days from the date of the 
cause of the grievance or within thirty (30) days from the date 
the  grievant  or  any  Union  representative  or  steward  knew  or 
through reasonable diligence should have known of the cause 
of the grievance. 

Section Six.  The Grievance Procedure. 
Step  1.    A  grievance  may  be  submitted  within  the  thirty 
(30) day period specified in Section Five to the agency head or 
his/her designee.  Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the 
grievance  a  conference  will  be  scheduled  with  the  employee 
and his/her representative and a written response shall be issued 
within five (5) days after the conference is held.  The grievance 
may  be  appealed  to  Step  2  if  no  conference  has  been  held 
within twenty-five (25) days of submission to Step 1. 

Step  2.      All  proceedings  at  Step  2  and/or  Step  3,  held 
hereunder,  shall  be  deemed  confidential  and  closed  to  the 
public  unless  the  parties  mutually  agree  otherwise.    An 
unresolved grievance may be appealed to the Office of Labor 
Relations within seven (7) working days of the receipt of the 
Step  1  response.    The  Office  of  Labor  Relations  shall  hold  a 
conference  within  forty-five  (45)  days  of  receipt  of  the 
grievance and issue a written response within fifteen (15) days 
of the conference. 

42

 

 

Step  3.  Arbitration.    Within  ten  (10)  working  days  after 
the state’s answer is due at Step 2, or if no conference is held at 
Step 2, within ten (10) working days after the expiration of the 
forty- 
five (45) period an provided in Step 2 an unresolved grievance 
may  be  submitted  to  arbitration  by  the  Union,  but  not by an 
individual employee(s), except that individual employees may 
submit  to  arbitration  in  cases  of  dismissal,  demotion  or 
suspension of five (5) or more working days. 

Section  Seven.    For  the  purpose  of  the  time  limits 
hereunder,  “days”  shall  mean  calendar days unless otherwise 
specified.  The parties by mutual agreement may extend time 
limits or waive any or all of the steps hereinbefore cited. 

Section Eight.  In the event that the State employer fails to 
answer a grievance within the time specified, the grievance may 
be processed to the next higher level and the same time limits 
therefore shall apply as if the State employer’s answer had been 
timely filed on the last day. 

The  grievant  assents  to  the  last  attempted  resolution  by 
failing  timely  to  appeal  said  decision  or  by  accepting  said 
decision in writing. 

Section Nine.  Arbitration.  (a)  Submission to arbitration 
shall be by certified or registered letter from the grievant to the 
State (Office of Labor Relations).  The parties shall establish a 
permanent panel of mutually acceptable arbitrators from which 
a single arbitrator will be selected to hear and render a decision 
on  each  grievance  submitted  to  arbitration.    By  mutual 
agreement,  grievances  may  be  combined  and  submitted  to  a 
single arbitrator. 

In  cases  involving  the  dismissal  or  demotion  of  an 
employee, the arbitrator shall be contacted within twenty (20) 
days  of  the  request  for  arbitration  and  must  be  available  to 
schedule  the  beginning  hearing  within  forty-five (45) days of 

  43

 
his/her  appointment.    In  all  other  cases,  the  arbitrator  will  be 
contacted  within  thirty  (30)  days  of  the  request  and  an 

44

 

 
arbitration schedule shall be arranged.  If the arbitrator selected 
is not available to schedule the hearing in a timely fashion the 
next arbitrator in rotation shall be selected.  The expenses for 
the  arbitrator’s  service  and  for  the  hearing  shall  be  shared 
equally  by  the  State  and  the  Union,  or  in  dismissal  or 
suspension  cases  when  the  union  is  not  a  party  one-half the 
cost shall be borne by the State and the other half by the party 
submitting to arbitration.  The Office of Labor Relations shall 
provide to the Union upon request a monthly summary of the 
arbitrator  designations  and  the  cases  offered/scheduled  with 
each. 

On  grievances  when  arbitrability  has  been  raised  as  an 
issue the arbitration shall be bifurcated at the demand of either 
party.  In such cases separate arbitrators may be utilized to hear 
the  arbitrability  issue  and  the  merits  in  the  event  the  case  is 
determined to be arbitrable. 

(b)  The arbitration hearing shall not follow the formal rules 
of  evidence  unless  the  parties  agree  in  advance,  with  the 
concurrence of the arbitrator at or prior to the time of his/her 
appointment. 

In cases of dismissals, demotions or suspensions in excess 
of five (5) days, either party may request the arbitrator maintain 
a  cassette  recording  of  the  hearing  testimony.    Costs  of 
transcription  shall  be  borne  by  the  requesting  party.    A  party 
requesting  a  stenographic  transcript  shall  arrange  for  the 
stenographer and pay the cost thereof. 

The State will continue its practice of paid leave time for 

witnesses of either party. 

(c)  The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract 
from,  alter,  or  modify  this  Agreement,  nor  to  grant  to  either 
party  matters  which  were  not  obtained  in  the  bargaining 
process,  nor  to  impose  any  remedy  or  right  of  relief  for  any 
period of time prior to the effective date of the Agreement, nor 

  45

 
to grant pay retroactivity for more than thirty (30) calendar days 
prior to the 

46

 

 

date  a  grievance  was submitted at Step 1.  The arbitrator 
shall render his/her decision in writing no later than thirty (30) 
calendar  days  after  the  conclusion  of  the  hearing  unless  the 
parties jointly agree otherwise the arbitrator’s decision shall be 
final  and  binding  on  the  parties  in  accordance  with  the 
Connecticut  General  Statutes  Section  52-418,  provided, 
however, neither the submission of question of arbitrability to 
any arbitrator in the first instance nor any voluntary submission 
shall  be  deemed  to  diminish  the  scope  of the judicial review 
over  arbitral  awards,  including  awards  on  arbitrability,  nor  to 
restrict  the  authority  of  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  to 
construe any such award as contravening the public interest.  

(d)  Late Arbitration Awards.  On those cases in which 
an arbitrator fails without permission of the parties to render a 
decision within the contractual time limits: the award shall be 
void,  the  arbitrator  shall  be  dropped  from  the  panel  and  the 
arbitrator shall not be paid. 

Section  Ten.  Notwithstanding  any  contrary  provision  of 
this  Agreement,  the  following  matters  shall  be  subject  to  the 
grievance procedure but not subject to arbitration: 

(a)  Disputes  over  an  employees 

(reclassification grievances); 

job  classification 

(b)  compliance  with  health  and  safety  standards  and 
this 

COSHA  except  where  specifically  mandated  by 
Agreement. 

(c)  disputes  over  claimed  unlawful  discrimination  in 
violation of Article 3 (Non-Discrimination  Affirmative Action), 
Section  1  (Non-Discrimination)  shall  be  subject  to  the 
grievance  procedure  but  shall  not  be  arbitrable  in  any  case 
where the Human Rights Commission has asserted jurisdiction; 
The following matters shall not be subject to the grievance 

and arbitration procedure. 

(a) the decision to lay off employees; 

  47

 

(b)  classification  and  pay  grade  for  newly  created  jobs; 
however,  this  clause  shall  not  diminish  the  Unions  right  to 
negotiate  on  pay  grades,  hours  of  work  and  working 
conditions; 

(c) dismissal of employees during the initial working test 

period; 

(d) non-disciplinary termination of employment. 
Section  Eleven.    The  existing  procedures  for  handling 
appeal of rejection from admission to examination and disputes 
over reclassification shall remain in force, except that the final 
step of the reclassification procedure shall be the same as the 
final  step  of  the  appeal  of  rejection  from  admission  to 
examination. 

ARTICLE 17 

Section  One. 

DISMISSAL, SUSPENSION, DEMOTION AND OTHER DISCIPLINE 
  No  permanent  employee  who  has 
completed 
the  Working  Test  Period  shall  be  demoted, 
suspended,  dismissed,  or  disciplined  in  any  other  manner 
except for just cause. 

Section  Two. 

  Permanent  employees  shall  submit 
grievances  concerning  dismissal,  suspension  or  demotion 
directly  to  Step  3  within  fifteen  (15)  days  of  official  written 
notification. 

All  other  disciplinary  grievances  shall  be  filed 

accordance with Article 16. 

in 

Section Three.  The State reserves the right to discipline or 

discharge an employee for breach of the No Strike Article. 

In any arbitration, the arbitrator shall have no authority to 
alter  or  modify  the  discipline  imposed  where  the  State  can 
show that: 

48

 

 

(a)    The  employee  intentionally  engaged  in  an  activity 

prohibited by said Article or 

  49

 

(b)  Where the discipline imposed is less than a five (5) day 

suspension. 

Section  Four.    The  grievance  procedure  shall  be  the 
exclusive forum for resolving disputes over disciplinary action 
and shall supersede any pre-existing forums. 

Section  Five. 

  Employer  Conduct  for  Discipline.  
Whenever  it  becomes  necessary  to  discipline  an  individual 
employee,  the  supervisor  vested  with  said  responsibility  shall 
undertake  said  talks  in  a  fashion  calculated  to  apprise  the 
employee 
avoiding 
embarrassment and public display. 

shortcomings,  while 

of 

his/her 

Section  Six.    Placement  of  an  employee  on  an  unpaid 
leave  of  absence  under  5-240-(d)  shall  be  subject  to  the 
following: 

(a)  An employee may draw his/her accrued vacation even 
if  he/she  remains  on  an  unpaid  leave  of  absence  under 
Regulation 5-248-3; 

(b)    In  cases  other  than  those  which  involve  a  criminal 
investigation  or  the  disposition  of  a  criminal  charge,  no  such 
leave  will  exceed  thirty  (30)  days  unless  in  the  reasonable 
judgment of the employer the seriousness of the matter under 
continued investigation outweighs the need of the employee for 
curtailment  of  the leave.  In any such case, the Union will be 
notified prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period; 

(c)  In all cases where practicable, the State will investigate 

the possibility of alternative assignment. 

Section  Seven.    Whenever  practicable,  the  investigation, 
interrogation or discipline of employees shall be scheduled in a 
manner  intended  to  conform  with  the  employee’s  work 
schedule,  with  an  intent  to  avoid  overtime.    When  any 
employee is called to appear at any time beyond his/her normal 
work time and actually testifies, he/she shall be deemed to be 

50

 

 
actually  working.    This  provision  shall  not  apply  to  Union 
stewards.  The  

  51

 
applicability of this Section to employees on unscheduled work 
weeks shall be a subject of continuing discussion. 

Section  Eight.    Reprimands.  A written reprimand or a 
written  record  of  an  oral  reprimand  which  is  placed  in  an 
employee’s  personnel  file  and  which  is  not  merged  in  the 
service rating (No. 1) following the issuance of such reprimand 
shall  remain  in  the  file  no  later  than  conclusion  of  the  next 
annual service rating period (No. 2). 

Section  Nine.    C.G.S.  Section  5-240  and  the  regulations 
appurtenant  thereto  in  effect  on  January  1,  1990  are  hereby 
incorporated by reference. 

ARTICLE 18 

HOURS OF WORK, WORK SCHEDULES AND OVERTIME 
Section  One.    Standard  Workweek.    The  standard 
workweek for all full-time employees shall be forty (40) hours 
worked in five (5) eight (8) hour days.  The standard workweek 
period  shall  be  defined  as  commencing  on  a  Friday  and 
concluding on the following Thursday.  The standard workday 
shall be defined as an eight (8) hour work period between the 
hours of 7:00 A.M. and 5:30 P.M.. 

A non-standard workweek for full-time employees shall be 
an average of forty (40) hours of work per week over a specific 
time period.  Non-standard or averaging schedules shall only be 
provided where overtime premium can be legitimately exempt 
from the over forty (40) hours work requirement of FLSA. 

An  unscheduled  workweek  for  full-time  employees  shall 
be  an  averaging  work  schedule  of  forty  (40)  hours  with  the 
starting  and  ending  time  and  the  number  of  work  days 
determined  by  the  requirements  of  the  position.    It  is 
understood that management retains the right to make specific 
within
assignments 

52

 

 
unscheduled workweek situations, so long as said assignments 
are posted not later than the Friday prior to the start of the pay 
period. 

The establishment or disestablishment of non-standard or 
unscheduled workweeks shall be consistent with CGS Section 
5-238  and  the  regulations  appurtenant thereto.  However, the 
Union  will  be  advised  of  any  such  establishment  or 
disestablishment  and  the  reasons  for  such  schedules  shall  be 
discussed with the Union upon request.  Employees affected by 
such  establishment  or  disestablishment  shall  be  provided not 
less than two (2) weeks notice of schedule change. 

Section  Two.    Meal  Breaks.    (a)   Meal breaks shall be 
scheduled  close  to  the  middle  of  a  shift  consistent  with  the 
operating needs of the agency. 

(b)    Employees  who  are  required  to  work  without  taking 
their  full  scheduled  meal  break,  or  who  are  required  to  serve 
without said meal break (or within thirty (30) minutes prior to 
and forty-five (45) minutes after) shall receive payment or such 
meal  break.    Employees  who  do  not  have  a  scheduled  meal 
break shall be compensated for any meal period if such break 
could  not  begin  within  thirty  (30)  minutes  before  or  seventy-
five  (75)  minutes  after  the  middle  of  the  shift  due  either  to 
assignment or call-out during said period. 

(c)    Department  of  Environmental  Protection  personnel 
shall be entitled to a paid meal break while (1) fighting fires, or 
(2)  stocking  fish,  provided  it  is  not  possible  to  take  the  meal 
break  within  thirty  (30)  minutes  prior  to  or  forty-five  (45) 
minutes following the scheduled meal time. 

(d)    It  is  understood  that  police  officers  under  C.G.S. 
Section 29-18, fire fighting employees, and Protective Services 
Trainees-Police  and  Protective  Services  Trainees-Fire Fighting, 
(exclusive of Academy Training), shall be on duty and subject 
to call during their meal break and shall have their meal break  

  53

 
counted as part of their work schedule as time worked.  If called 
out during their meal break, a later meal break may be taken. 

(e)  The above shall not be construed to alter existing meal 

break practices for employees not provided for above. 

Section  Three.    Rest  Periods.    Unless  precluded  by 
existing  agency  policy  and  subject  to  the  operating  needs  of 
any  agency,  employees  will  be  scheduled  to  receive  a  fifteen 
(15) minute rest period in each half shift. 

Section  Four.    Overtime.    (a)    The  provisions  of  this 
Section  shall  be  interpreted  consistent  with  C.G.S.  Section  5-
245 except when specifically provided otherwise. 

(b)    The  State  will  pay  overtime  to  eligible  employees  at 
time  and  one-half  for  hours  worked  over  forty  (40)  within  a 
workweek, except as provided otherwise in CGA Section 5-245 
for employees on rotating shifts and for unscheduled positions 
and classes for employees on averaging schedules approved by 
the Director of Labor Relations. 

(c) 

  Employees  shall  continue  to  be  paid  overtime 
consistent with this Agreement, although the parties recognize 
the  statutory  obligation  that  eligible  employees  be  paid 
overtime in compliance with the provisions of the Federal Fair 
Labor Standards Act (FLSA). 

After  the  payment  of  overtime  in  accordance  with  the 
collective bargaining agreement (see generally, this Article), an 
employee’s  additional  FLSA  payment, 
if  any,  shall  be 
computed according to the rules set forth in the FLSA (29, CFR 
Part 778 ET SEQ.).  In determining whether said employee is 
eligible for FLSA overtime payment, only “hours worked” as 
defined in the Act, shall be counted.  Furthermore, the FLSA 
liability  shall  be  offset  by  the  amount  of  overtime  payments 
already  paid  to  said  employee  in  accordance  with  this 
Agreement and existing practice, for that FLSA work period. 

54

 

 

In order to comply those employees whose schedules are 

covered by 29 CFR Part 553.230, shall have their payments  
offset  pursuant  to  the  rules  for  said  section,  i.e.,  twenty-eight 
(28) day work period or one hundred seventy-one (171) hours. 
(d)  Call In/Call Back.  Effective upon legislative approval 
of this Agreement, employees who have left work after the end 
of  their  scheduled  work  shift  and  who  are  called  in  or  called 
back for other than their regularly scheduled work shift, other 
than a continuous extension thereof, shall be compensated as 
follows:  

 

(1)  A minimum of two (2) hours overtime pay for the 

first two (2) hours work or any portion thereof. 

(2)  Two (2) hours overtime pay for the next two (2) 

hours work or any portion thereof. 

 

 

(3)  Pay for work beyond the first four (4) hours shall 

be paid as overtime on the basis of actual hours worked. 

If  within  said  period,  in  the  reasonable  judgment  of  the 
supervisor, the employee is no longer required for the situation 
or  emergency  for  which  he/she  was  called  in,  and/or  called 
back,  and  except  for  any  unforeseen  emergency  or  situation 
requiring  the  employee,  then  the  supervisor  shall  allow  the 
employee  to  go  off-duty  and  said  employee  shall  not  forfeit 
said  overtime  pay.    Should  an  employee  be  released  and 
subsequently recalled the cycle referenced in l through 3 above 
shall begin anew.  The minimum overtime pay shall begin from 
the time the employee is called.  
  Exempt  Employees. 

  During  the  life  of  this 
Agreement,  Section  (5-245)(b)(1)  shall  be  deemed  to  exempt 
from overtime all employees being paid above Salary Grade 16. 
Notwithstanding  the  above,  Section  Four  F  of  the  State 
Coalition Agreement on Pay Equity will govern in determining 
whether a classification is eligible for the overtime payment. 

(e) 

  55

 

(f)  Employees held over after the end of a shift in excess 
of  seven  and  one  half  (7.5)  minutes  shall  have  all  work 
performed  

56

 

 
after  the  shift  considered  overtime  work;  for  the  purpose  of 
computing overtime entitlement time spent shall be rounded off 
to the nearest quarter hour.  A minimum of fifteen (15) minutes 
of  overtime  shall  be  paid  to  inspectors  assigned  to  Motor 
Vehicle Office closings. 

(g)    Work  schedules  of  employees  working unscheduled 
workweeks  shall  not  be  reduced  after  the  performance  of 
emergency  work  (i.e.  work  performed  in  addition  to  that 
performed  during  the  normal  workday)  for  the  purpose  of 
avoiding overtime. 

(h)  Overtime pay shall not be pyramided 
(i)  When practicable overtime checks shall be paid no later 
than the second payroll period following the overtime worked. 
Section Five.   Equalization of Overtime.  To the extent 
possible,  consistent  with  current  practice,  voluntary  overtime 
opportunities  shall  be  distributed  equally  among  qualified 
volunteers  with  similar  skills  and  duties.    The  employer  will 
attempt  to  meet  overtime  needs  by  first  soliciting  volunteers 
prior  to  making  assignments.    It  is  understood  that  soliciting 
volunteers  may  not  be  appropriate  in  emergency  situations 
(including short-notice absences). 

Section  Six.    (a)    Effective  7/1/95,  employees  who  are 
assigned  to  a  fixed  duty  station  and  have  previously  been 
receiving portal to portal pay, shall have the benefit of counting 
their  travel  time  to and from the fixed duty station limited to 
one-half (1/2) hour each way. 

(b)    Time  worked  by  Motor  Vehicle  Inspectors  who 
perform special inspection assignments, i.e. race tracks, shall be 
calculated as follows: 

 

(1)  Where the Inspector has a State vehicle assigned 
to him/her, time worked shall include home-to-duty station and 
duty station-to-home time;  

  57

 

 

(2)  Where the Inspector must pick up a State Vehicle, 
time  worked  shall  include  pick-up-to-duty  station  and  duty 
station-to-drop-off time. 

(c)  Motor  Vehicle Inspectors with assigned vehicles who, 
when traveling to work, stop for emergencies, accidents, motor 
vehicle breakdowns or any related motor vehicle violation shall 
be in pay status from the time the Inspector stops at the scene 
of  such  emergency,  accident,  motor  vehicle  breakdown  or 
motor vehicle violation. 

An  Inspector,  when  traveling  from  his/her  assignment  at 
the end of his/her shift, who stops at any emergency, accident, 
motor  vehicle  breakdown  or  for  any  motor  vehicle  violation 
shall be in pay status from the end of the inspector’s assigned 
shift  until  completion  of  such  emergency,  accident,  motor 
vehicle breakdown or violation. 

It  is  understood  that  such  stops  shall  be  made  in 

accordance with published agency policy. 

(d)  An employee who is regularly assigned a State vehicle 
and whose job primarily involves field assignments rather than 
assignment to a fixed duty station shall be considered to be in 
pay  status  commencing  with  arrival  at  the  first  business  call 
until departure from the last business call, provided, however, 
any  travel  in  excess  of  twenty  (20)  miles  to  or  from  the 
employee’s  home  shall  be  considered  as  time  worked.    The 
above provisions shall apply only to those occasions when the 
employee is reporting to a field assignment. 

above, 

employees 

in 

the 

Notwithstanding 

the 
classifications of State Animal Control Officer, Liquor Control 
Agent,  Liquor  Control  Special  Agent,  Liquor  Control 
Supervising  Agent,  Enforcement  Officer  and  Conservation 
Enforcement  Officer,  whose  job  primarily  involves  a  field 
assignment,  shall  continue  the  existing  practice  of  including 
home-to-duty station and duty station-to-home as time worked. 

58

 

 

 

Section  Seven.    Exchange  of  Shifts.    Employees 
schedules  performing 

working  under 
substantially similar work may exchange shifts provided: 

the 

same 

shift 

(a)    no  additional  cost  to  the  State  of  Connecticut  is 

imposed; 

(b)  the employee’s supervisor is given reasonable notice, 
normally in excess of twenty-four (24) hours, and approves the 
swap; 

(c)    the  State  of  Connecticut  is  not  responsible  for 

enforcing agreements made between employees; 

(d)    approval  of  shift  changes  is  subject  to  revocation  as 

dictated by the needs of the Department; and 

(e)    approval  by  the  supervisor  shall  not  be  arbitrarily 
withheld nor shall revocation of an approved swap be arbitrarily 
made; and 

(f)    The  swap  need  not  be  completed  within  a  particular 
pay  period.    The  participants  are  encouraged  to  complete  the 
swap within a ninety (90) day period. 

Section  Eight.    Workweek  Changes.    Subject  to  the 
provisions  of  this  Agreement,  employees  shall  be  notified  by 
the  Employer  in  writing  at  least  ten  (10)  working  days  in 
advance of proposed changes in schedules and implementation 
except  where  an  emergency  condition  precludes  such  action.  
Workweek changes shall not be arbitrarily made for the specific 
purpose of circumventing payment of overtime. 

Prior to any major schedule change in any work unit, the 
employer  shall  notify  the  Union  and  upon  request  shall  meet 
with the Union officers and/or steward(s)  in advance to discuss 
the impact of such changes. 

Major schedule changes may be made to meet legitimate 

business needs and shall not be arbitrarily made. 

  59

 

During the term of this Agreement, the employer shall not 
modify work schedules from regular shifts to rotating shifts (or 
vice-versa), without the consent of the Union. 

Notwithstanding 

the  above,  effective  July  1,  1995, 
Agencies may alter the schedules of employees and avoid the 
payment  of  overtime  in  order  to  provide  training  program  to 
staff.    When  practicable,  the  Agency,  will  give  ten  (10)  day 
notice. 

Section Nine.  Except as provided elsewhere in this Article, 
full-time  Environmental  Protection  Maintainers  within  the 
Division of Conservation and Preservation shall be assigned to 
a regular schedule consisting of five (5) consecutive days with 
two (2) consecutive days off. 

Section  Ten.    Effective  upon  legislative  approval  (1985), 
each  Agent  and  Supervising  Agent  of  the  Liquor  Control 
Commission  may  be  assigned  to  schedules  other  than  the 
current Monday through Friday, 8:30 to 4:30 shifts for a total of 
twenty-three  (23)  times  per  contract  year.    Such  schedule 
change  shall  be  effective  in  accordance  with  this  Article.  
Employees hired after June 30, 1985 shall not be restricted to 
the  Monday  through  Friday,  8:30  to  4:30  work  schedule,  but 
shall be assigned in accordance with provisions of Article 18, 
Section 1. 

Section Eleven.  Consistent with the provisions of Section 
Eight  of  this  Article,  non-emergency  schedule  changes  for 
Liquor  Control  Agents  (the  job  series)  may  not  be  made 
without the required ten (10) day notice.  Schedule adjustment 
notices must be provided on the payday of the pay period prior 
to  the  effective  change.    Each  notice  of  schedule  adjustment, 
made after the notice period above would require a special $25 
compensation  payment  to  the  individual(s)  experiencing  the 
schedule change. 

60

 

 

ARTICLE 19 

TEMPORARY SERVICE IN A HIGHER CLASS 

Section  One.    An  employee  who  is  assigned  to  perform 
temporary service in a higher class shall, commencing with the 
thirty-first  consecutive  calendar  day  of  such  assignment,  be 
paid,  retroactive  to  the  first  day  of  the  assignment,  for  such 
actual  work  at  the  rate  of  the  higher  class  as  if  promoted 
thereto,  provided  such  assignment 
the 
Commissioner of Administrative Services. 

is  approved  by 

Section Two.  Such assignments may be made when there 
is a bona fide vacancy which management has decided to fill, or 
when an employee is on extended absence due to illness, leave 
of absence, or other reasons.  Extended absence is one which is 
expected to last more than thirty (30) working days. 

Section  Three. 

  An  appointing  authority  making  a 
temporary assignment to a higher class shall issue the employee 
written  notification  of  the  assignment  and  shall  immediately 
forward 
the 
assignment from the Commissioner of Administrative Services 
in writing. 

the  appropriate  form  seeking  approval  of 

Section  Four.    If  on  or  after  the  thirty-first  consecutive 
calendar  day  of  such  service, 
the  Commissioner  of 
Administrative  Services  has  not  approved the assignment, the 
employee  upon  request  shall  be  reassigned  to  his/her  former 
position, subject to the provisions of Section 5. 

Section  Five. 

  In  the  event  the  Commissioner  of 
Administrative Services disapproves the requested assignment 
on the basis of  his/her judgment that the assignment does not 
constitute  temporary  service  in  a  higher  class,  the  employee 
shall  continue  working  as  assigned  with  recourse  under  the 
appeal  procedure  for  reclassification  but  not  under  the 
arbitration procedure.  The form certifying the assignment will 

  61

 
specify the rights and obligations of the parties under Sections 
4 and 5. 

62

 

 

Section Six.  Temporary assignments to a higher class for 
periods of thirty (30) calendar days or less shall not be utilized 
to defeat the basic contractual obligation herein. 

Section Seven.  In the Department of Motor Vehicles, the 
Motor  Vehicle  Inspector  who  assumes  the  duties  of  a  Motor 
Vehicle  Sergeant  on  days  when  the  Sergeant  is  not  on  duty 
shall receive $.60 per hour, provided such additional duties are 
performed for ½ the shift hours or more. 

Section Eight. Firefighters at the University of Connecticut 
at Storrs, University of Connecticut Health Center, and Bradley 
International Airport shall receive $.60 per hour when they are 
recognized  as  Lieutenant/Technician, and assume supervisory 
duties provided such additional duties are performed for ½ the 
shift or more in the absence of a Fire Captain. 

Section Nine.  Police Officers who are assigned as “Officer 
in  Charge”  on  days  when  a  Sergeant  or  Lieutenant is not on 
duty shall receive $.60 per hour, provided such additional duties 
are performed for ½ the shift hours or more. 

ARTICLE 20 

COMPENSATION 

Section  One.    (a)    Effective  January  14,  2000,  the  base 
annual  salary  for  all  employees  shall  be  increased  by  two 
percent (2%). 

(b)  Effective June 30, 2000, the base annual salary for all 
employees  shall  be  increased  by  three  and  one-half per cent 
(3.5%). 

(c)  Effective June 29, 2001, the base annual salary for all 

employees shall be increased by three percent (3%). 

(d)  Effective June 28, 2002, the base annual salary for all 

employees shall be increased by three percent (3%). 

(e)  Effective June 27. 2003, the base annual salary for all 

employees shall be increased by three percent (3%). 

  63

 

(f)    Each  permanent  employee actively employed on the 
date  of  approval  of  this  Agreement  by  the  Legislature  shall 
receive a lump sum payment of two hundred dollars ($200.00). 
Section  Two.    Employees will continue to be eligible for 
and  receive  annual  increments  during  the  term  of  this 
Agreement in accordance with existing practice.  Effective July 
1, 1999 there shall be a tenth step established, which shall be 
two  percent  (2%)  greater  than  Step  9.    There  shall  also  be 
established an eleventh step, which is four percent (4%) greater 
than Step 9. 

Section Three.  Employees shall continue to be eligible for 
longevity payments for the life of this Agreement in accordance 
with existing practice.  The longevity schedule in effect on June 
30, 1977 shall remain unchanged in dollar amounts during the 
life of this Agreement and is appended hereto. 

Section  Four. 

  Any  employee  who  is  provisionally 
promoted  shall  receive  a  full  promotional  increase  as  if 
permanently promoted. 

Section Five.    Workers’  Compensation.    (a)   Personnel 
listed below,  who exercise general or special powers of arrest, 
shall  be  covered  by  C.G.S.  Section  5-142(a)  whenever  they 
sustain  an  injury  while  making  an  arrest  or  in  the  actual 
performance  of  police  duties,  guard  duties,  fire  duties, 
inspection duties, while attending or restraining an inmate, or if 
assaulted  in  the  performance  of  their  duties,  whether  or  not 
such duties are performed on a full-time basis: 

 

(1)  Institutional security personnel and Department of 
Environmental  Protection  law  enforcement  personnel  who 
derive their powers of arrest from C.G.S. Section 29-18; 
(2)  Department of Environmental Protection 

 
personnel engaged in fire fighting duties; 
 

(3)  Institutional firefighters;  

64

 

 

 
 

(4)  Police and fire personnel at Trumbull Airport 
(5)    Canine  control  officers injured while making an 

arrest or while dealing with aberrant animals. 

(b)    C.G.S.  Section  5-142(a)  is  further  clarified  to  cover 
bargaining unit employees of any institution or facility of the 
Department  of  Mental  Health  giving  care  and  treatment  to 
persons  afflicted  with  a  mental  disorder  or  disease  or  any 
institution for the care and treatment of persons afflicted with 
any mental defect who are injured in the performance of their 
police or guard duties, whether or not the injury is inflicted by 
said  persons  or  incurred  while  attending  or  restraining  such 
persons. 

Section Six.  Clothing and Accessories.  (a)  On or about 
September  1  of  each  contract  year,  each  employee  in  the 
bargaining  unit  shall  receive  $70.00  for  the  purchase  of 
appropriate shoes.  Employees hired on or after March 1 in any 
contract  year  shall  not  be  eligible  for  such  payment  for  that 
contract year. 

(b)  On or about December 1 of each contract year plain 
clothes  personnel  of  a  uniform  service,  including  but  not 
limited  to,  Special  Revenue  Police,  Military  Department 
Officers,  Liquor  Control  Agents,  Casino  Agents,  Tax 
Enforcement Agents and Enforcement Officers shall receive a 
clothing allowance of three hundred five dollars ($305). 

Section  Seven.    Home  Office  Differential.  On or about 
December 1 of each contract year, employees who are required, 
by the employing agency, to maintain space in their homes as 
an  office  and  regularly  use  such  space  to  conduct  State 
business shall receive $675. 

The differential shall be increased to $700  effective July 1, 

2000 and to $725 effective July 1, 2001. 

  65

 

Said payments shall be proportionately reduced for those 
employees who are hired or are terminated from employment 
and use their home as an office for less than the full contract 
year, (July 1 through June 30). 

The  State  shall  pay  for  telephones  where  the  employing 
agency  requires  that  the  employee  have  a  telephone  installed 
and available for use in State business. 

Section Eight.  Hazardous Duty Pay.  (a)  Employees in 
the  Department  of  Environmental  Protection  who  perform 
hazardous duty during the hours between dusk and dawn shall 
receive an additional twenty-five percent (25%) hazardous duty 
pay  for  all  hours  so  worked.    Said  differential  shall  not  be 
included  in  base  pay,  nor  shall  this  differential  diminish  an 
Employee’s  right  to  payment  for  overtime  work  performed.  
Employees  shall  be  eligible  for  such  hazardous  duty  pay 
between the hours of dusk and dawn while: 

 
 

(1)  Searching for lost persons; 
(2)  Searching for downed aircraft/operating at aircraft 

accidents; 

OR 
 

vehicles or forest fires. 

(3)    Fighting  night  fires  involving  structures,  boats, 

(b)    The  State  Police  Emergency  Services  Specialist  shall 
receive  hazardous  duty  pay  differential  of  twenty-five percent 
(25%)  for  all  hours  worked  in  the  control,  removal  and 
operation at the scene of situations involving explosives and/or 
hazardous substances.  Said differential shall not be included in 
base  pay,  nor  shall  this  differential  diminish  an  Employee’s 
right to payment for overtime work performed. 

(c)    Department  of  Environmental  Protection  personnel 
assigned  to  the  Portland  Depot  Sawmill  and  engaged  in  the 
cutting  of  lumber  shall  receive  an  additional  hazardous  duty 
premium of $.40 per hour while operating cutting equipment. 
66

 

 

Section Nine.  Claims.  The employer agrees to facilitate 
within ninety (90) days the expeditious processing of claims for 
lost or damaged property to the Claims Commissioner. 

Eyeglass  frames  and  lenses  shall  be  replaced  in  kind  if 
possible  or  by  items  of  equal  value.    The  employer  will 
reimburse  an  employee 
the 
performance of duty up to a maximum of $40. 

jewelry  damaged 

for 

in 

Section Ten.  Liability Insurance.  The State shall assume 
the  cost,  up  to  a  maximum  of  $75  per  year,  for  liability 
(renter’s) insurance for employees living in State housing. 

Section  Eleven.    Indemnification.    Protective  Services 
employees who have general or special powers of arrest shall 
be covered by C.G.S. Section 29-8a and C.G.S. Section 53-39a, 
subject to the restrictions set forth therein. 

Section Twelve.   Accidental Death or Dismemberment.  
The State shall assume the cost of $25,000 accidental death or 
dismemberment policy for each bargaining unit employee. 

Section Thirteen.  Emergency Medical Technicians and 
Paramedics.  (a)  The State shall pay an annual skill premium 
to  each  employee  who  is  certified  as  an  Emergency  Medical 
Technician B. (EMT-B).  Said payment shall amount to $400 for 
each contract year. 

(b)  The State shall pay an annual skill premium to each 
employee who is certified as an Emergency Medical Technician 
I  (EMT-I).    Said  payment  shall  amount  to  $525  for  each 
contract year. 

(c)    The  State  shall  pay  an  annual  skill  premium  to  each 
employee who is certified as a Paramedic (EMT-P) and where 
such training is directly job related (i.e., police, fire, instructors 
and personnel assigned to rescue details).  Said payment shall 
amount  to  $3310  for  the  contract  year  commencing  July  1, 
1999.    For  the  contract  year  commencing  July  1,  2000  the 

  67

 
payment shall amount to $3600 and for the contract year July 1, 
2001 the  

68

 

 
payment  shall  amount  to  $3700.    For  each  contract  year 
beginning  July  2000  the  annual  premium  shall  be  paid  in 
quarterly installments commencing in October. 

The premiums of this Section shall not be pyramided.  The 
skill  premiums  for  contract  years  commencing  July  1,  1999 
shall be paid on or about December 1, 1999. 

Section Fourteen.  The firefighter at Bradley International 
Airport who is assigned as the driver of the Walters CB 3000 
Crash  Vehicle  (or  an  equivalent  replacement  vehicle)  on  any 
particular  shift  shall  receive  an  additional  $.25  per  hour  skill 
differential.  Said differential shall not be included in base pay, 
nor  shall  this  differential  diminish  an  employee’s  right  to 
payment for overtime work performed. 

Section Fifteen.  Effective upon legislative approval of this 
Agreement, any Protective Services Trainee who has served one 
(1)  full  year  in  such  training  capacity  shall  be  promoted  to 
his/her target class on a provisional basis, if the failure of the 
employee to qualify for a permanent promotion is the fault of 
the Employer. 

Section Sixteen.  Effective July 1, 1982, any Motor Vehicle 
Inspector  who  is  assigned  to  work  in  an  Inspection  Lane,  on 
either  a  permanent  or  a  rotational  basis,  shall  receive  a  pay 
differential  of  $.25  per  hour  for  each  full  hour  of  such  work 
assignment.  Said differential shall not be included in base pay, 
nor  shall  this  differential  diminish  an  employee’s  right  to 
payment for overtime work performed. 

Section  Seventeen.    When  the  employer  determines that 
an employee has been over paid, it shall notify the employee of 
this fact and the reasons therefore.  The employer shall arrange 
to recover such overpayment from the employee over the same 
period of time in which the employee was overpaid unless the 
Employer and employee agree to some other arrangements. 

  69

 

In  the  event  the  employee  contests  whether  he/she  was 
actually  overpaid  the  employer  shall  not  institute  refund 
procedures until completion of the grievance/arbitration appeal 
process. 

Section Eighteen.  Dog handlers shall be paid at a rate of 
Ten Dollars ($10.00) per hour, for up to one-half (1/2) hour per 
day,  for  canine  related  duties  that  can  not  be  accomplished 
during normal working hours. 
  (a) 

  All  unit  classes  shall  be 
remunerated according to the Objective Job Evaluation point to 
pay  grade  assignment  as  provided  in  Section  Four  of  the 
Agreement  between  the  State  of  Connecticut  and  the  State 
Coalition on Pay Equity. 

Section  Nineteen. 

(b)  The  following  Objective  Job  Evaluation  point  to  pay 
grade  assignments  shall  be  effective  beginning  June  23,  1995 
and  as  provide  in  Section  4  of  the  Agreement  Between  The 
State of Connecticut and the State Coalition On Pay Equity: 

PPSS,,PPFF,,PPTT  
GGRROOUUPP  
    1 
    2 
    3 
    4 
    5 
    6 
    8 
    9 
   10 
   11 
   12 
   13 
   14 
          15 
          16 
          17 
          18 

PPOOIINNTT 

RRAANNGGEE 

    0 
   91 
  115 
  122 
  136 
  147 
  177 
  191 
  207 
  223 
  240 
  257 
  271 
         286 
         305 
         326 
         349 

   90 
  114 
  121 
  135 
  146 
  162 
  190 
  206 
  222 
  239 
  256 
  270 
  285 
         304 
         325 
         348 
         374 

 
 
 
 

70

 

PPOOIINNTT 

RRAANNGGEE 

         401 
         419 
         435 
         462 
         489 
         515 
         543 
         570 
         596 
  Premium 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

PPSS,,PPFF,,PPTT  
GGRROOUUPP  
          19 
          20 
          21 
          22 
          23 
          24 
          25 
          26 
          27 

         375 
         402 
         420 
         436 
         463 
         490 
         516 
         544 
         571 
Section  Twenty-one. 

for  Security  at 
Groton/New  London  Airport.    A  skill  premium  of  $.75  per 
hour  for  each  full  hour  of  work  will  be  provided  to  Police 
Officers  at  Groton/New  London  Airport  for  providing 
firefighting services as well as security services.  Such premium 
shall be treated exclusively as an adder. 

Section  Twenty-two.    On-Call/Standby  Pay.  For  those 
employees who are, by managerial direction, obligated to (1) be 
available  for  service,  (2)  standby  for  a  call,  or  (3)  carry  a 
response device to provide immediate response or coverage, the 
sum of $1.00 per hour shall be paid for each hour so assigned.  
Notwithstanding 
any  on-call/standby 
assignment,  such  compensation  shall  not  exceed  $100.00  per 
employee per week. 

the  duration  of 

ARTICLE 21 

CLASS REEVALUATIONS 

Section  One.    The  procedure  set  forth  in  this  Article 

supersedes the provisions of Section 5-200(n) C.G.S. 

Section Two.  The Union but not any employee shall have 
the  right  to  appeal  in  writing  by  submitting  data,  views, 
arguments, or a request for a hearing relative to reevaluation of 
a  class  or  classes  of  positions  allocated 
the  State 

to 

  71

 
Compensation Plan.  Within sixty (60) days after the receipt of 
such written data  

72

 

 
or  holding  the  requested  hearing,  the  Commissioner  of 
Administrative  Services  or  his/her  designee  shall  answer  the 
appeal. 

Section Three.  The Commissioner shall judge the appeal 

only with respect to the following criteria: 

(a)  Whether there was a change in job duties of the class 
appealed  substantial  enough  that  it  should have the effect of 
changing its compensation grade.  The Commissioner will not 
look  to  changes  which  occurred  prior  to  the  effective  date  of 
this Agreement. 

(b)  Having found a substantial change in job duties, then 
internal consistency among classes covered by this Agreement 
based on benchmark classes established by the Commissioner 
and published as soon as practical after the effective date of this 
Agreement shall be considered. 

Section  Four.    In  any  arbitration  case  arising  from  such 
appeal,  the  mutually  agreed  upon  arbitrator  or  permanent 
umpire,  who  shall  be  experienced  in  public  sector  position 
classification and evaluation, shall base his/her decision on the 
criteria set forth in Section Three above.  Pay comparability for 
equal  work  in  other  jurisdictions  or  outside  the  scope  of  this 
Agreement shall not be a basis for the arbitrator’s or umpire’s 
decision hereunder.  However, the arbitrator may consider pay 
comparability  for  equal  work  in  similar  occupational  areas  of 
employment in the executive branch of the State. 

Section  Five.    Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to 
prevent  the  State  from  instituting  a  class  reevaluation  on  its 
own initiative.  The Union will be given a two (2) weeks notice 
prior  to  a  class  reevaluation.    Any  dispute  shall be subject to 
arbitration in accordance with this Article. 

  73

 

ARTICLE 22 

PERMANENT PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 

Permanent  part-time  employees  will  continue  to  receive 
wages  and  fringe  benefits  on  a  prorata  basis  to  the  extent 
provided under existing rules and regulations. 

ARTICLE 23 

METHOD OF SALARY PAYMENT 

Section  One.    Worker’s  Compensation  Coverage  and 
Payments.    Where  an  employee  has  become  temporarily 
totally disabled as a result of illness or injury caused directly by 
his/her  employment,  said  employee  may,  pending  final 
determination  as  to  the  Employee’s  eligibility  to  receive 
worker’s compensation benefits, charge said period of absences 
to  existing  leave  accounts.    Where  a  determination  is  made 
supporting  the  employee’s  claim,  State  authorities  shall  take 
appropriate  steps  to  rectify  payroll  and  leave  records  in 
accordance  with  said  determination. 
  Upon  final  and 
nonappealable decision by appropriate State authority that an 
employee is entitled to receive worker’s compensation benefits, 
said employee shall receive his/her first payment no later than 
four  (4)  weeks  following  such  determination.    Accrued  leave 
time  may  be  used  to  supplement  worker’s  compensation 
payments up to but not beyond the regular salary. 

Section  Two.    Advanced  Vacation  Pay.    Upon  written 
request to the Agency, no later than five (5) weeks prior to the 
commencement of a scheduled vacation period, an employee 
shall receive such earned and accrued pay for vacation time as 
he/she  may  request,  such  payment  to  be  made  prior  to  the 
commencement  of  the  employee’s  vacation  period.    Such 
advances shall be for a period of not less than one (1) pay week 
and shall not exceed the actual length of the approved vacation. 

74

 

 

ARTICLE 24  

HEALTH INSURANCE  

For the duration of this Agreement, the State shall continue 
in  force  the  health  insurance  coverage  previously  effective 
unless  modified  through  the  Health  Care  Cost  Containment 
process or by mutual agreement of the parties. 

ARTICLE 25  
HOLIDAYS  

Section One.  For the purposes of this Article, holidays are 
as  follows:    New  Year’s  Day,  Martin  Luther  King  Day, 
Lincoln’s  Birthday,  Washington’s  Birthday,  Good  Friday, 
Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, 
Veterans’ Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day. 

Section  Two.    Unless  superseded  in  this  Article,  the 
provisions  of  C.G.S.  Section  5-254  and  the  appurtenant 
regulations shall continue in force. 

Section Three.  Holiday Pay.   Each full-time permanent 
employee  shall  receive  pay  for  the  holidays  as  designated  in 
Section One as follows: 

1)  When an employee’s schedule includes a Holiday, but 
the  employee  is  not  obligated  to  work  on  that  designated 
holiday, said employee shall receive his/her regular week’s pay 
for  the  week  in  which  the  holiday  falls  [said  holiday  pay  is 
equal to eight (8) hours]. 

2)    When an employee is neither scheduled to work, nor 
the  employee  shall  receive  a 

the  holiday 

called-in  on 
compensatory day of eight (8) hours. 

3)  If an employee works on the holiday as part of his/her 
regular  schedule,  the  employee  shall  receive  a  compensatory 
day off plus he/she shall be paid time and one-half for all hours 
worked on the holiday. 

  75

 

4)  An employee who is scheduled to be off on a holiday 
but  is  called-in  on  that  holiday  shall  receive  pay  at  time  and 
one-half for all hours worked plus a compensatory day off. 

5)  When an employee who is scheduled to work for less 
than  a  full  day  on  the  holiday,  in  order  to  fill  out  the  regular 
workweek, the employee shall receive pay at time and one-half 
for all hours worked, plus compensatory time for the difference 
between eight (8) hours and the actual time worked. 

6)  Christmas Exception [December 25 12:01 A.M. through 
Midnight  December  26]  (a)  for  all  employees  who  are 
scheduled to work on Christmas, all hours worked on that day 
shall  be  paid  at  time  and  one-half  plus  the  employee  shall 
receive  straight  time  pay  [eight  (8)  hours)  in  lieu  of  having  a 
compensatory  day  for  the  holiday.    (b)  For  all  employees 
called-in  to  work  on  Christmas,  outside  the  regular  schedule, 
section 4) supra, shall apply. 

7) 

  Except  where  otherwise  provided  herein,  a 
compensatory day paid to an employee who actually worked 
on the holiday, shall be equal to eight (8) hours.  Any current 
stipulated agreements regarding the length of the compensatory 
day shall be deemed void by virtue of this provision. 

Section  Four.    Regularly  scheduled  holiday  work  for 
Conservation  Enforcement  Officers 
shall  be  equitably 
distributed  within  regions  over  long  periods  of  time  (i.e. 
approximately  one  year) 
consistent  with  operational 
requirements. 

Regularly  scheduled  holiday  work  for  Maintainers  in  the 
Department  of  Environmental  Protection  shall  be  equitably 
distributed  among  employees 
the  same  classification 
performing similar duties within the same work area (e.g. park, 
forest) over long periods of time (i.e., approximately one year), 
consistent with operational requirements. 

in 

76

 

 

Section  Five.    Under  the  Department  of  Motor  Vehicles 
work  schedule,  when  a  legal  holiday  falls  on  a  Friday,  the 
normal  

  77

 
Saturday  hours  shall  be  scheduled  for  the  following  Tuesday 
evening. 

Section Six.  Employees shall be allowed to bank up to but 
not more than 100 hours of holiday compensatory time.  If, at 
any  time  an  employee’s  personal  compensatory  time  bank 
exceeds the 100 hour maximum, the employee shall be paid for 
the  time  in  excess  of  100  hours  as  soon  thereafter  as  is 
practicable.  Said monies shall be paid at the pay rate in force 
on the date of the payment.  Employees who exceed the 100 
hour  maximum  on  the  date  of  legislative  ratification  of  this 
Agreement  shall  arrange  with  their  Agency  to  eliminate  the 
excess by use of release time and/or payment, but in no case 
may they continue to bank new compensatory time until their 
bank is less than 100 hours. 

PREGNANCY, MATERNAL AND PARENTAL LEAVE  

ARTICLE 26  

Disabilities resulting from or contributed to by pregnancy, 
miscarriage,  abortion,  childbirth  or  maternity,  defined  as  the 
hospital  stay  and  any  period  before  or  after  the  hospital  stay 
certified by the attending physician that period of time when an 
employee  is  unable  to  perform  the  requirements  of  her  job, 
may be charged to any accrued paid leaves.  Upon expiration of 
paid leave, the employee may request, and shall be granted a 
medical leave of absence without pay, position held.  The total 
period  of  medical  leave  of  absence  without pay with position 
being held shall not exceed six (6) months following the date of 
termination  of  the  pregnancy.    A  request  to  continue  on  a 
medical  leave  of  absence  due  to  disability  as  outlined  above 
must be in writing and supplemented by an appropriate medical 
certificate.    Such  requests  will  be  granted  for  an  additional 
period not to exceed three (3) additional months.  If granted, 
the position may or may not be held for the extended period 
subject to the appointing authority’s decision. 

78

 

 

Up  to  three  (3)  days  of  paid  leave,  deducted  from  sick 
leave, will be provided to an employee in connection with the 
birth, adoption or taking custody of a child. 

Parental  Leave.    The  provisions  of  C.G.S.  Sec.  5-248a 
(and  amendments  thereto)  and  the  regulations  appurtenant 
thereto,  as  they  apply  to  parental  leave,  shall  apply.    An 
employee who is granted a statutory non-disability leave may 
request  and  shall  be  granted  the  financial  benefits  of  accrued 
vacation leave, personal leave and/or compensatory time during 
the  period  of  statutory  leave;  however,  such  time,  if  taken 
during  the  period  of  statutory  leave,  shall  not  be  utilized  to 
extend the same leave for a period in excess of that described in 
the request for such leave or the statutory maximum. 

Holidays  which  occur  during  the  period  covered  by  the 
parental  leave  provisions  of  C.G.S.  Sec.  5-248a  shall  not  be 
compensated unless the employee is concurrently utilizing paid 
vacation,  compensatory  time  or  personal  leave  as  may  be 
permitted above and consistent with current practice. 

ARTICLE 27 
VACATIONS 

Section One.  For employees on the payroll June 30, 1977, 
the present vacation schedule as provided in C.G.S. Section 5-
250  and  the  appurtenant  Regulations  shall  remain  in  force, 
except that employees who have completed twenty (20) years 
of service shall earn paid vacation credits at the rate of one and 
two-thirds  (1-2/3)  work  days  for  each  completed  calendar 
month of service.  For employees hired on or after July 1, 1977, 
the  following  vacation  leave  shall  apply:    zero (0) to five (5) 
years,  one  (1)  day  per  month;  over  five  (5)  years  and  under 
(20), one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days per month; over twenty 
(20), one and two-thirds (1-2/3) days per month. 

Section  Two.    Employees are encouraged to take at least 
two (2) weeks or equivalent of vacation per year.  Supervisors  
  79

 
are encouraged to approve leave requests where possible.  No 
employee will carry over more than ten (10) days of vacation 
leave  to  the  next  year,  except  in  extraordinary  situations  and 
with the permission of the Agency.  For employees hired on or 
before June 30, 1977, the maximum accumulation of vacation 
leave shall be one hundred twenty (120) days.  For employees 
hired  on  or  after  July  1,  1977,  the  maximum  vacation 
accumulation shall be sixty (60) days. 

ARTICLE 28 

SICK LEAVE AND OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE 

Section One.  Except where varied in this Agreement, the 
State will continue in force its written rules and regulations with 
respect  to  Sick  Leave  (one  and  one-quarter  (1-1/4)  days  per 
month) or other paid or unpaid leave of absence. 

Section Two.  A bonus day will be added to the sick leave 
bank  of  any  employee  if  no  sick  leave  is  used  in  any  six  (6) 
month period of July 1 to December 31, or January 1 to June 
30.    For  purposes  of  this  Section,  Funeral  Leave  and  Injury 
Leave (supplemented by Sick Leave) of less than two (2) weeks 
shall not preclude the bonus day. 

Section Three.  Upon the death of an employee who has 
completed  ten  (10)  years  of  State  service,  the  employer  shall 
pay  to  the  beneficiary  one-fourth  (1/4)  of  the  deceased 
employee’s daily salary for each day of sick leave accrued to 
his/her credit as of his/her last day on the active payroll, up to a 
maximum payment equivalent to sixty (60) days pay.  

ARTICLE 29 

PERSONAL LEAVE 

Each  full-time  permanent  bargaining  unit  employee  shall 
be  entitled  to  three  (3)  personal  leave  days  with  pay  in  each 
calendar  year.    Each  permanent  part-time  employee  shall 

80

 

 
receive  the  entitlement  to  personal  leave  days  on  a  pro-rata 
basis.   

  81

 
Personal  leave  shall  be  for  the  purpose of conducting private 
affairs, including observance of religious holidays, and shall not 
be deducted from vacation, holiday time, sick leave credits or 
any  other  leave  time.    Personal  leave  days  not  taken  in  a 
calendar year shall not be accumulated. 

ARTICLE 30 

Section  One. 

LEAVE ACCRUALS 
  For  the  purpose  of  facilitating  the 
bookkeeping  mechanism  implemented  by  the  employer,  each 
employee’s  accumulated  leave  balances  (e.g.  vacation,  sick 
leave,  personal  leave,  earned  time)  as  of  September  30,  1979 
shall  be  converted  from  days  to  hours,  and  all  future 
accumulations  will  be  recorded  on  an  hourly  basis.    Said 
conversions and future accumulations shall be implemented in 
such  a  manner,  consistent  with  each  employee’s  work 
schedule, so as to continue the present level of leave benefits, 
and is not intended to diminish, alter or amend any benefit or 
accrual. 

Section  Two.    The  previous  Section  notwithstanding, 
employees  who  are  regularly  assigned  to  a  forty  (40)  hour 
workweek  as  specified  in  Article  18,  Section  7,  shall  accrue 
leave benefits on the basis of (l) day equals eight (8) hours. 

ARTICLE 31 

MILITARY LEAVE 

A full-time permanent employee who is a member of the 
armed  forces  of  the  State  or  any  reserve  component  of  the 
armed  forces  of  the  United  States  shall be entitled to military 
leave  with  pay  for  active  duty  for  required  field  training 
provided such leave does not exceed three (3) calendar weeks 
in  a  calendar  year.    Additionally,  any  such  employee  who  is 
ordered to active duty as a result of an unscheduled emergency 
(natural  disaster  or  civil  disorder)  shall  be  entitled  to  military 

82

 

 
leave  with  pay  not  to  exceed  thirty  (30)  calendar  days  in  a 
calendar year.  During such  

  83

 
leave the employee’s position shall be held and the employee 
shall be credited with such time for seniority purposes. 

Other requests for military leave may be approved without 
pay.    Nothing  in  this  Article  shall  be  construed  to  prevent  an 
employee  from  attending  ordered  military  training  while  on 
regular scheduled vacation.  The provisions of this Article shall 
supersede  C.G.S.  Sections  5-248(c)  and  27-33  and  the 
appurtenant regulations of the Personnel Policy Board. 

ARTICLE 32 
CIVIL LEAVE 

Civil leave (not jury duty) for any purpose other than State 
related business shall not be treated as time worked.  If a court 
appearance  is  required  as  part  of  the  employee’s  work  and 
requires the employee’s presence beyond his/her normal work 
day, all such time shall be paid in accordance with Article 18, 
Section 4.  It is understood that this provision shall apply to an 
employee  who  is  subpoenaed  to  appear  in  court  primarily 
because of his/her employment role. 

ARTICLE 33 
RETIREMENT 

The terms and conditions of employee retirement benefits 
are  contained  in  a  separate  agreement  between  the  State  and 
Union. 

ARTICLE 34 

BARGAINING UNIT WORK 

Section One.  Employees shall perform such duties as are 
required by their job specifications and shall not normally be 
required to perform work which is inconsistent with the overall 
purpose of the job class. 

Section Two.  The employer agrees that there shall be no 
part-timing of full-time employees or positions, except with the  
84

 

 
concurrence  of  the  employee.    Part-time employees shall not 
replace any bargaining unit employee. 

Section  Three.    Non-bargaining unit employees shall not 
perform  bargaining  unit  work  so  as  to  terminate  or  replace 
bargaining  unit  employees  or  positions,  except  for  temporary 
unforeseen emergencies. 

Section  Four.    Bargaining  unit  employees  shall  not 
normally  be  supervised  by  temporary  or  seasonal  employees, 
unless  in  the  State  employer’s  judgment  there  is  a  need  for 
special  skills  or  background  or  such  assignment  will  enhance 
operational efficiency. 

ARTICLE 35 

SHIFT AND WORK LOCATION 

Section  One.    (a)    Conservation  Enforcement  Officers, 
Environmental Protection Parks and Recreation Supervisor 1,2 
and 3, Environmental Protection District Fire Control Officer, 
Environmental  Protection  Maintainers.    When  there  is  a 
vacancy in any Region, the employer shall post all permanent 
vacancies in each Regional office at least two (2) weeks prior to 
filling the vacancy. 

(b)    Vacant Shift Assignments.  When there is a vacant 
shift position in any agency, department or work location, the 
employer  shall  post  all  permanent  vacancies  in  such  agency, 
department or work location for eligible employees at least ten 
(10) days prior to filling the vacancy.  This provision shall not 
preclude advance written request for shift transfer. 

(c)    All Protective Services Employees.  Any employee 
may  request,  in  writing,  a  transfer  to  a  specific shift or work 
location  in  any  classification  in  which  he/she  has  attained 
permanent  status.    The  request  must  be  submitted  to  the 
employee’s immediate supervisor who shall forward it without  

  85

 
delay  to  the  appropriate  agency  authority.    The  Agency 
authority shall maintain a file of all transfer requests.  Normally, 
a  request  for  transfer  shall  not  be  considered  where  an 
employee has been granted a prior transfer request within the 
previous twelve (12) month period or has less than twelve (12) 
months service in the bargaining unit. 

Section Two.  When a vacancy is to be filled, the agency 
will  review  the  qualifications  and  work  records  of  employees 
seeking lateral transfer to the shift or work location where the 
vacancy exists.  Of those applicants who  are equally qualified 
for the vacancy, preference will be given to the employee with 
the greatest seniority in that classification. 

Section  Three.    This Article shall not be deemed to limit 
the agency’s right to fill a vacancy by some other means other 
than  lateral  transfer  when  the  need  for  training,  operational 
efficiency,  staffing  and  service  requirements,  need  for  special 
skills  or  background,  or  compliance  with  Federal  or  State 
programs  so  dictate.    The  Union  or  the  most  senior  qualified 
employee  who  has  requested  transfer  to  the  vacancy,  if 
adversely  affected,  shall  be  given  a  written  explanation,  if  so 
requested.    The  Union  may  grieve  concerning  unreasonable 
denial to qualified transfer applicants. 

Section Four.  An appointing authority wishing to transfer 
an  employee  who  has  not  volunteered  for  such  transfer  shall 
notify  the  employee  in  writing,  and,  except  in  an  emergency, 
shall  provide  at  least  two  (2)  weeks  advance  notice.    To  the 
extent  practicable,  involuntary  transfers  shall  be  made  on  the 
basis of inverse seniority. 

Section  Five.    In  all  other  matters  of  transfers  not 
superseded  by  this  Article,  the  current  practice  will  remain  in 
force. 

86

 

 

ARTICLE 36 

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL 

Section  One.    Employees  in  Salary  Group  PS  16  and 
below  shall  be  entitled  to  shift  differential  payments  for  all 
hours worked between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. 
and  for  all  shifts  that  are  characterized  by  the  fact  that  fifty 
percent (50%) or more of the hours are between the 6:00 P.M. 
and 6:00 A.M. parameters. 

Section Two.  Shift differential shall be included in pay for 
vacation,  holiday  and  leave  time  provided  that  the  employee 
would have been eligible had he/she not been absent. 

Section  Three.    The  shift  differential  shall  be  sixty-five 

($.65) cents per hour.  

ARTICLE 37 
JOB TITLES 

Section  One. 

  Employees  holding  positions  in  the 
following classifications shall be known by their common titles 
as indicated. 
Job Classification 
Motor Vehicle Inspector II 
Airport Fire  Crash Officer 

Airport Fire  Crash Supervising 
Officer 
Airport Fire  Crash Assistant Chief  Airport Crash Rescue 

Common Title 
Motor Vehicle Sergeant 
Airport Crash Rescue 
Firefighter 
Airport Crash Rescue 
Captain 

Deputy Chief 
Police Officer 
Police Sergeant 

Police Sergeant 
Police Lieutenant  

  87

Airport Security Officer I 
Airport Security Supervising 
Officer 
Institution Security Officer II 
Institution Security Officer III 

 
 
Job Classification 
University Firefighter II 
Liquor Control Inspector 
Supervising Liquor Control 
Inspector 
Conservation Officer II 

Common Title 
University Fire Captain 
Liquor Control Agent 
Liquor Control Supervising 
Agent 
Conservation Enforcement 
Sergeant 

ARTICLE 38 

CONTRACTING OUT 

(a)    During  the  life  of  this  Agreement,  no  full-time 
permanent employee will be laid off as a direct consequence of 
the exercise by the State employer of its right to contract out. 

(b)  The State employer will be deemed in compliance with 

this Article if: 

 

(1)  The employee is offered a transfer to the same or 
similar position within the Protective Services Bargaining Unit 
within  a  reasonable  distance  which, 
the  employer’s 
judgment, he/she is qualified to perform, with no reduction in 
pay; or 

in 

 

(2)    Not  later  than  July  1,  1980,  the  Employer  shall 
complete  a  program  of  officially  converting  the  above  job 
classifications,  and  their  job  specifications,  to  conform  to  the 
common titles. 

(c)  Sunset Clause:  The provisions of this Article expire 
automatically on June 30, 1999.  Either party may negotiate for 
the inclusion of this portion or any modification thereof in any 
successor agreement. 

ARTICLE 39 

VEHICLE POLICY 

88

 

 

When  an  assigned  vehicle  is  not  available  due  to  an 
accident, maintenance or repairs, or any other similar reason, a  

  89

 
replacement vehicle will be provided.  Every effort will be made 
to provide a comparably equipped vehicle. 

ARTICLE 40 
UNIFORMS 

Section One.  During the life of this Agreement, the State 
will  not  increase  the  cost  to  employees  for  uniforms  and 
equipment.    There  shall  be  no  downgrading  in  the  quality  of 
current uniforms and/or equipment issued to employees during 
the Contract term. 

Section  Two.    The  State  shall  issue  four  (4)  new  work 
uniforms  to  the  Environmental  Protection  Regional  Fire 
Control Officers, which uniforms shall have the Department of 
Environmental  Protection  patches  with  “Fire Control Officer” 
rockers. 

Section Three.  Within the Department of Environmental 
Protection, all new, permanent Environmental Protection Parks 
and Recreation Supervisor 1,2 and 3 shall be issued a complete 
uniform  at  the  time  of  appointment  (or  as  soon  thereafter as 
possible)  and  replacement  as  needed.    The  department  shall 
continue  its  current  practices  with  respect  to  alterations  and 
cleaning of all issued uniforms. 

Section  Four.    The  employer  reserves  the  right  to 
determine  the  uniform  which  it  will  require.  The Union may 
submit recommendations as to uniform styles.  Disputes over 
any safety aspects of the designated uniform may be subject to 
the grievance and arbitration procedure. 

Section Five.  Firefighters who have not been issued dress 
uniforms  by  the  State,  and  who  chose  to  purchase  such  a 
uniform shall be entitled to reimbursement of 70% of the cost 
of said purchase, provided that no employee shall be entitled to 
more  than  $130.    The  employee  must  submit  a  receipt  of 
purchase in order to receive reimbursement. 

90

 

 

A  joint  committee  of  three  (3)  Union  representatives  and 
three  (3)  Employer  representatives  shall  be  appointed  for  the 
purpose  of  drafting  specifications  for  appropriate  dress 
uniforms. 

ARTICLE 41 

TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENTS 

During  the  life  of  this  Agreement,  an  employee  who  is 
required to travel on employer business shall be reimbursed at 
the following rates: 

Breakfast 
 
Lunch 
Dinner 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  Miscellaneous 

 
 
 
 
The standard state travel regulations in force on January 1, 
1990, shall be incorporated by reference, except as superseded 
herein. 

 
 
 
 

$ 5.00 
$ 7.00 
$16.00 
$ 5.00 

An  employee  who  is  required  to  use  his/her  personal 
vehicle in the performance of duty shall be reimbursed at the 
GSA rate.  As U.S. General Services Administration adjusts this 
rate, the State will utilize the adjusted rate within thirty days of 
such adjustment. 

ARTICLE 42 

HYPERTENSION 

Section 5-145a C.G.S. is amended to include peace officers 
covered under Section 29-18, 29-18a, 29-18b, C.G.S. or Section 
26-5 C.G.S. and fulltime firefighting personnel. 

Bargaining Unit employees otherwise covered by Section 
5-145a  C.G.S.,  upon  initial  employment,  shall  be  given  a 
physical  examination  by  the  State  within  thirty  (30)  days  of 
employment.    Should  the  employer  fail  to  give  such  an 
examination, 
to  have 

the  employee  shall  be  deemed 

  91

 
successfully passed a physical examination for the purpose of 
Section 5-145a C.G.S.  On the  

92

 

 
effective date of this Agreement, employees for whom there is 
no  record  of  a  physical  examination  shall  be  deemed  to  have 
successfully passed a physical examination for the purposes of 
Section 5-145a C.G.S. 

ARTICLE 43  

MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLE  

Section One.  Except where varied in this Agreement, the 
State will continue in force its written rules and regulations with 
reference to: 

(a)  insurance coverages (unless changed by mutual     
       agreement); 
(b)  Worker’s compensation; 
(c)  death benefits. 
Section Two.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the Entire 
Agreement Article, any written agency policy which concerns 
mandatory  subjects  of  collective  bargaining  and  which  was 
continued in force by the agency head or his/her designee at the 
time  of  ratification  of  this  Agreement  shall  not  be  canceled 
unless  such  policy  is  inconsistent  with  the  terms  of  this 
Agreement  without  first  negotiating  such  change  with  the 
Union. 

Section Three.  References in this Agreement to “rules and 
regulations”  refer  to  the  “Blue  Book”  Regulations  of  the 
Personnel Policy Board effective July 1, 1975.  Such references 
include also all applicable General Letters and Q-items. 

Section Four.  Hazardous Duty.  The Union, and not any 
individual employee, shall, upon request, be granted a hearing 
by the Commissioner of Administrative Services concerning a 
claim  for  hazardous  or  unpleasant  duty  pay  differential.  
Disputes  under  this  Section  shall  not  be  subject  to  the 
Grievance and Arbitration Article. 

  93

 

Section Five.   Seniority Lists.  September 1 is the target 

date for completion of class seniority lists. 

94

 

 

Section Six.  Employees hired on or before June 30, 1979, 
without  being  required  to  be  a  resident  of  the  State  of 
Connecticut  shall  not  be  so  required  during  the  life  of  this 
Agreement. 

Section Seven.  Funeral Detail.  In the event of the death 
of a member of the bargaining unit in the line of duty, up to six 
(6) employees in the same job series, or, in the alternative, the 
same  agency,  shall  be  granted  time  off  to  attend  the  funeral.  
Department  heads  shall  be  notified  a  reasonable  time  in 
advance. 
law 
enforcement  officers  or  fire  fighters,  where  the  Union  has 
determined that a funeral detail is necessary, shall be permitted 
to wear their uniform to such services. 

  Personnel  attending 

funerals 

for  other 

Section Eight.  Employees may grieve the arbitrary denial 

of permission to engage in outside employment. 

Section  Nine.    During  the  term  of  this  Agreement  the 
the 
Department  of  Environmental  Protection  will  allow 
Conservation  Officers  to  use  assigned  vehicles  while  off-duty 
subject to those rules, regulations and orders promulgated by 
the  Commissioner  of  the  Department  of  Environmental 
Protection.  This specific provision of this Article shall sunset 
on June 30, 2004. 

Section Four.  Hazardous Duty.  The Union, and not any 
individual employee, shall upon request, be granted a hearing 
by  the  Director  of  Labor  Relations  or  his/her  designee 
concerning  a  claim  for  hazardous  or  unpleasant  duty  pay 
differential.  Disputes under this Section shall not be subject to 
the Grievance and Arbitration Article.  It is herein determined 
that where the decision is to provide the differential will be paid 
for hours worked in the hazardous or unpleasant duty at a rate 
of $.50 per hour.  The Office of Labor Relations will retain an 
official record of such designated individual situation. 

  95

 

ARTICLE 44 

ENTIRE AGREEMENT 

This Agreement, upon ratification, supersedes and cancels 
all  prior  practices  and  agreements,  whether  written  or  oral, 
unless expressly stated to the contrary herein, and constitutes 
the  complete  and  entire  agreement  between  the  parties  and 
concludes collective bargaining for its term. 

that 

The  parties  acknowledge  that  during  the  negotiations 
which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right 
and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect 
to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of 
collective  bargaining,  and 
the  understanding  and 
agreements  arrived  at  by  the  parties  after  the  exercise  of  that 
right  and  opportunity  are  set  forth  in  this  Agreement.  
Therefore,  the  State  and  the  Union,  for  the  duration  of  this 
Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, 
and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated, to bargain 
collectively with respect to any subject or matter whether or not 
referred  to  or  covered  in  this  Agreement,  even  though  such 
subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or 
contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they 
negotiated or signed this Agreement. 

The provisions of this Article are subject to Miscellaneous 
Article,  Sections  1  and  2  and  the  State  Employees  Labor 
Relations Act (Chapter 68 of the Connecticut General Statutes), 
and no such provision shall be deemed to have been vitiated by 
reason of this Article. 

ARTICLE 45 

SUPERSEDENCE 

The  inclusion  of  language  in  this  Agreement  concerning 
matters  formerly  governed  by  law,  regulation,  or  policy 
directive shall not be deemed a preemption of the entire subject 

96

 

 
matter.  

  97

 
Accordingly,  statutes,  rules,  regulations,  and  administrative 
directives or orders shall not be construed to be superseded by 
any  provision  of  this  Agreement  except  as  provided  in  the 
Supersedence  Appendix  to  this  Agreement,  or  where,  by 
necessary implication, no other construction is tenable. 

The parties will jointly prepare a Supersedence Appendix 

for submission to the Legislature for approval. 

ARTICLE 46 

LEGISLATIVE ACTION 

The  cost  items  contained  in  this  Agreement  and  the 
provisions  of  this  Agreement  which  supersede  preexisting 
statutes  shall  not  become  effective  unless  or  until  legislative 
approval has been granted pursuant to Section 5-278(b) of the 
Connecticut General Statutes.  The State employer shall request 
such approval as provided in said Section 9.  If the legislature 
rejects such request as a whole, the parties shall return to the 
bargaining table. 

ARTICLE 47 

SAVINGS CLAUSE 

Should  any  provisions  of  this  Agreement  be  found 
unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of 
the Agreement shall continue in force.  Upon issuance of such a 
decision,  the  employer  and  the  Union  shall  immediately 
negotiate a substitute for the invalidated provision only. 

ARTICLE 48 

MEALS AND HOUSING 

Section  One.    Meals.    Rates  charged  to  employees  for 
meals at State agencies with employee dining facilities shall be  

98

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

7/1/92 
2.50 
4.00 
4.00 

 
 
Breakfast 
 
Lunch 
Dinner 
 

as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Section Two.  Housing.  The employer shall have the right 
to establish rental rates for employees in State-owned Housing.  
Such rental rates shall be based upon appraisals conducted by 
or for the State which will establish fair market values for the 
properties.    The  State  will  continue  to take into consideration 
whether  the  housing  is  located  on  the  grounds  of  the  State 
institutions, when determining rental values. 

The  rental  values  established  by  the  State  for  employee 
housing  shall  not  be  subject  to  the  grievance  or  arbitration 
procedure. 

ARTICLE 49 

DURATION OF AGREEMENT 

This Agreement shall be effective on July 1, 1999 and shall 
expire  on  June  30,  19200499.    Unless  otherwise  stated  to  the 
contrary changes to language provisions shall take effect upon 
legislative approval. 

Negotiations  for  the  successor  to  this  Agreement  shall 
commence  with 
the 
Connecticut General Statute, Section 5-276a(a).  The request to 
commence negotiations shall be in writing, sent certified mail, 
by the requesting party to the other party. 

timetable  established  under 

the 

The provisions of CGS 5-270, et seq., and the regulations 
thereto  notwithstanding,  the  next  window  period  for  this 
bargaining unit shall be no earlier than August 2003. 

  99

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  -  I 

RE:  DONATION OF VACATION AND PERSONAL LEAVE 
This  is  to  confirm  the  parties’  understanding  reached  in 
negotiations (effective May 1, 1990) that from time-to-time, on 
an as needed basis, bargaining unit members may donate their 
accrued vacation and/or personal leave to a fellow bargaining 
unit  member  who  is  suffering  from  a  long  term  or  terminal 
illness or disability and who has at least six (6) months of State 
service and has achieved permanent status and has exhausted 
his/her own accrued paid time off. 

Said benefit shall be subject to review and approval by the 
Commissioner of Administrative Services and shall be applied 
in accordance with uniform guidelines as may be developed by 
such Commissioner. 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  -  II 

RE:  ARTICLE 7 - SECTION SEVEN (C) 

On or before July 1 of each year the Union will advise the 
Office of Labor Relations as to whether or not it will avail itself 
of  the  Article  7  Section  Seven  (c)  Union  President  leave 
provision  for  the  coming  contractual  year.    If  it  opts  not  to 
utilize  said  provision  then  the  provisions of Article 7 Section 
Seven (a) and Seven (c) of the NP-5 agreement effective 7/1/84 
- 6/30/87 shall govern the parties’ relationships in this area for 
the contractual period. 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  -  III 

RE:  ARTICLE 11 - SECTION FOUR 

Reference is made to the provision of Article 11, Section 4.  
The  parties  reaffirm  their  commitment  to  provide,  whenever 
possible,  for  the  assignment  of  at  least  two  officers  to  those 
incidents in which there is a recognized threat of violence.  At 

100

 

 
the  same  time  they  acknowledge  that  assignment  of  two 
officers  

 101

 
may in fact be unnecessary when sufficient alternatives provide 
a  comparable  measure  of  safety. 
the 
transportation of a prisoner may not, in all cases, demand use 
of two officers, particularly where movement is within a sterile 
environment(s)  or  where  other  facts,  such  as  prisoner  age  or 
physical  condition,  availability  and/or  use  of  handcuffs,  leg 
irons and in place restraint are sufficient to insure officer safety 
in the situation. 

  For  example, 

In  any  case  however,  management  shall  fully  and 
sympathetically  consider  the  stated  concerns  of  the  effected 
employee. 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  -  IV 

RE:  ARTICLE 18 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 18 the University 
Fire  Chief  shall  receive  paid  overtime  at the straight time rate 
when  such  overtime  is  occasioned  by  the  replacement  of 
another bargaining unit line officer or emergency call back. 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  -  V 

RE:  ARTICLE 19 - SECTIONS SEVEN, EIGHT AND NINE 
Article 19, Sections 7, 8 and 9 address premium payment 
for personnel assuming Officer In Charge status.  The intent of 
this language is to compensate an individual when performing 
intermittently in the capacity of “Officer In Charge” due to the 
absence of the individual who holds such position. 

This provision (Sections 7, 8 and 9) is not intended to be 
utilized  to  avoid  promotion  or  temporary  service  in  a  higher 
class.  The intent is clearly for coverage during absence and not 
for  long  term  replacement  due  to  termination,  resignation  or 
retirement. 

102

 

 

MMEEMMOORRAANNDDUUMM  OOFF  UUNNDDEERRSSTTAANNDDIINNGG  --  VVII  

RREE::  RREEVVIIEEWW  OOFF  PPRREEMMIIUUMM  PPAAYYMMEENNTTSS  

 

The  State  shall  submit  classes  to  OJE  for  review  of 

need for the continuation of premium payments. 

 

If  the  OJE  Master  Committee  determines  that  the 
premium  is  no  longer  justified,  because  the  service  has  been 
determined to be part of the compensation for the classification 
specification; or would not justify additional salary adjustment, 
then the premium shall terminate at the close of the fiscal year 
within  which  the  classification  is  studied  by  the  Master 
Committee. 

MMEEMMOORRAANNDDUUMM  OOFF  UUNNDDEERRSSTTAANNDDIINNGG  --  VVIIII  

RREE  AARRBBIITTRRAATTIIOONN  PPAANNEELL  

 

The parties agree that the arbitration panel referenced 
in Article 16, Section Nine, shall be expanded to include five (5) 
arbitrators, from which a specific arbitrator shall be selected on 
a rotational basis.  Each party retains the right following three 
(3) case experiences to strike any particular arbitrator from the 
panel.    In  that  case,  a  replacement  arbitrator  shall  be  jointly 
agreed upon to replace each rejected arbitrator. 

MMEEMMOORRAANNDDUUMM  OOFF  UUNNDDEERRSSTTAANNDDIINNGG  --  VVIIIIII  

RREE  CCHHIILLDD  AABBUUSSEE  PPRREEVVEENNTTIIOONN  AANNDD  TTRREEAATTMMEENNTT  ((CCAAPPTTAA))  

DDEEPPAARRTTMMEENNTT  OOFF  CCHHIILLDDRREENN  AANNDD  FFAAMMIILLIIEESS  ((DDCCFF  

During the course of the collective bargaining negotiations 
for a successor agreement to the Agreement expiring June 30, 
1999,  the  parties  discussed  at  great  length  a  process  and 
program know as “Hot Line”.  This program has been patterned 
and developed under the guidance of the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services. 

Public Law 104-235 authorized the annual award of funds 

to States that submit plans meeting certain eligibility criteria.   

 103

 
One such criterion is assurances that an appeals process be in 
place.    It  is  herein  affirmed  that  DCF  will  have  in  place  an 
appeals  process  available  to  individuals  alleged  to  have 
committed child abuse or neglect. 

The above reference “appeals process” shall be published 
and distributed to DCF employees (PSEC members) to ensure 
knowledge of and availability to the process.  It is furthermore, 
affirmed  that  provisions  will  be  in  place  to  expunge  records 
used  for  purposes  of  employment  or  background  checks  in 
cases that are either abandoned during the investigation process 
or determined to be unsubstantiated or false.  Expunge as used 
herein  shall  be  defined  consistent  with  the  term “voided” as 
specified  in  Article  8,  Section  3  of  the  collective  bargaining 
agreement. 

104

 

 

     STATE OF CONNECTICUT 
     BARGAINING COMMITTEE 

 

Robert L. Curtis 
Chief Negotiator 

Office of Labor Relations 

 

Bobbie Buckner, Department of Motor Vehicles 

Joanne Driver , Department of Environmental Protection 

Fred Ferris, Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services 

Christine Greco, Department of Consumer Protection 

Tom Harris, Department of Mental Retardation 
Betty Jenak, Department of Special Revenue 

Stephen Markwald, Department of Transportation 
Jeannet Perez, Department of Children & Families 

Verna Plona, Department of Public Works 

Jason B. Powell, Connecticut State University 

Nora Ryan, Military Department 

Neil A. Sullivan, University of Connecticut Health Center 

John Williamson, Department of Education 

 105

 

PROTECTIVE SERVICES 
EMPLOYEES COALITION 
BARGAINING COMMITTEE 

 

Kathleen Flanagan Beal 

President, PSEC 
Barry Scheinberg 

Chief Negotiator/General Counsel 

Carl E. Smith 

Executive Vice President  

William J. Boucher 
Secretary/Treasurer 

Stephen Cox 

President-IUPA Local 74 

Carmine Centrella 

President - IAFF Local S-15 

P. Thomas Clark 

First Vice President-IUPA Local 74 

Christina Burkert 

First Vice President-IAFF Local S-15 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ron Ferrante 

Gloria Carey  

Shawn Covell  

 
 
Thomas Bowolick 

 
 
 
 
Southbury Training School 
 
 
Department of Public Safety   
 
 
 
University of Connecticut  
 
 
Western Connecticut State University  
 
 
Department of Children and Families 
 
 
 
Department of Motor Vehicles 
 
Protection 
 
 
University of Connecticut 
 

Richard Santoro   

Richard Gudis  

Paul Witham 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Edward Daly 

Salvatore Ciarleglio 

 
 Francis Brunet  
UCONN Health Center 
 
Central Connecticut State University 
 
Department of  Motor Vehicles 
 
Dept. of Environmental Protection 
 
Military Department  
 
 

James P. Warren 
 Dept. of  Environmental 

Douglas J. Inman 

 John Folsom 

 

 

106

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

NP-5 
 
 
PAY 
 
PLANS 

 

 107

 

 

 

