Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

16

Language English

Country United States

State

CA

Union SEIU (Service Employees International Union) AFL-CIO

Local SEIU Local 1000; California State Employees Association, CSU Division Bargaining Units 2, 5, 7, 

and 9

Multiple occupations represented

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Trustees of The California State University
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2001

Source

http://www.calcsea.org/csu/bargaining/contract/1999-2001/

Original_format HTML (multipart)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

ARTICLE 1 
 RECOGNITION 
   
1.1  
  
The Trustees of The California State University (CSU) recognize the California State Employees' 
Association, (CSEA), Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 1000, AFL-CIO, the Union, as 
the  sole  and  exclusive  bargaining  representative  for  Bargaining  Units  2,  5,  7  and  9,  which  includes  the 
employees in classifications described in Appendix A of this Agreement. 
  
1.2  

The parties further agree that management, supervisory, and confidential employees as defined in 
the  Higher  Education  Employer-Employee  Relations  Act  of  1978  (HEERA)  are  excluded  from  the 
bargaining units. 
  
1.3  
  
The parties agree that employees appointed for ninety (90) days or less in classifications described 
in Appendix A of this Agreement are excluded from the bargaining units and are not covered by the terms 
of this Agreement. 
  
1.4  
  
The parties may mutually agree in writing to modify the unit to include or delete classification(s). 
If  the  parties  disagree  as  to  the  inclusion  or  deletion  of  classification(s),  either  party  may  seek  a  unit 
modification pursuant to the procedures established by the Public Employment Relations Board (PERB). 
  
1.5  

The University reserves the right at any time to move a position into a Confidential classification 
when the duties are consistent with the Confidential designation as defined in HEERA. The Union reserves 
the right to challenge before PERB whether a position designated by the University is confidential within 
the  meaning  of  HEERA.  Any  Confidential  employee  whose  duties  are  changed  to  remove  confidential 
duties as defined in HEERA shall be appointed by the University to the classification and bargaining unit 
appropriate to the duties of the assignment. 

 ARTICLE 2 
 DEFINITIONS 
  
2.1  
  
in a position designated management or supervisory as defined by HEERA. 
  
2.2  

Administrator - The term "administrator" as used in this Agreement refers to an employee serving 

in less than a full-time appointment. 

 

Bargaining Unit  - The term "bargaining unit" as used in this Agreement refers to the bargaining 

Calendar Year  - The term "calendar year" as used in this Agreement refers to the period of time 

Appropriate Administrator  - The term "appropriate administrator" as used in this Agreement refers 
to  the  immediate  non-bargaining  unit  supervisor  or  manager  to  whom  the  employee  is  normally 
accountable, or who has been designated by the President. 
  
2.3  
  
unit defined in Article 1, Recognition. 
  
2.4  
  
from January 1 through December 31. 
  
2.5  
  
Campus - The term "campus" as used in this Agreement refers to one university or college and all 
its facilities, which is a member institution of The California State University. The term "campus" shall also 
refer to the Office of the Chancellor, when appropriate. 
  
2.6  
  
of the CSU or his/her designee. 
  
2.7  

Chancellor - The term "Chancellor" as used in this Agreement refers to the chief executive officer 

Conversion - The term "conversion" as used in this agreement refers to the implementation of new 
classification  structure(s)  in  which  the  original  classification(s)  are  abolished  and  replaced  with  new 
classification  structure(s)  with  a  new  set  of  classification(s)  and  the  employees  are  placed  in  the  new 
classification(s). The impact of any conversion including, but not limited to, compensation shall be subject 
to the collective bargaining process. 
  
2.8  

CSU - The term "CSU" as used in this Agreement refers collectively to the Trustees, the Office of 

the Chancellor, and the universities and colleges. 
  
2.9  
  
Day - The term "day" as used in this Agreement refers to a calendar day. The time in which an act 
provided  by  this  Agreement  is  to  be  done  is  computed  by  excluding  the  first  day,  and  including  the  last, 
unless the last day is a holiday or other day on which the Employer is not regularly open for business, and 
then it is also excluded. 
  
2.10  
  
who is a full-time, part-time, probationary, permanent, or temporary employee. 

Employee  - The term "employee" as used in this Agreement refers to a bargaining unit member 

a.  Full-time Employee as used in this Agreement refers to a bargaining unit employee who is serving 

in a full-time appointment. 

 
b.  Part-time Employee as used in this Agreement refers to a bargaining unit employee who is serving 

 

 

 

 

c.  Probationary Employee as used in this Agreement refers  to a bargaining unit employee who has 

received a probationary appointment and is serving a period of probation. 

d.  Permanent Employee as used in this Agreement refers to a bargaining unit employee who has been 

awarded permanent status and is serving in a permanent appointment. 

e.  Temporary  Employee  as  used  in  this  Agreement  refers  to  a  bargaining  unit  employee  who  is 

serving in a temporary appointment for a specific period of time. 

f.  Per diem Employee as used in this agreement refers to a type of hourly intermittent employee in 
classifications listed in Appendix B who are paid by a per diem salary rate which includes a base 
hourly  rate  plus  twenty  nine  percent  (29%)  of  the  hourly  rate.  A  per  diem  employee  does  not 
accrue leave and is not eligible for benefits and is not covered by Articles 14, 15, 16, 21, and 22.  
A per diem employee is eligible for retirement pursuant to Provision 21.25 (Part-time Employees 
Retirement Plan) and in accordance with PERS regulations. Per diem employees shall not displace 
bargaining unit employees. "Displacement" includes layoff and demotion. 

g. 

Intermittent Employee as used in this Agreement refers to a temporary bargaining unit employee 
who works on an hourly-intermittent basis. 

Fiscal Year  - The term "fiscal year" as used in  this Agreement refers to the period of time from 

  
2.11  

July 1 through June 30. 
  
2.12  

In-classification Progression  - The term "in-classification progression" as used in this Agreement 

refers to movement from one skill level to a higher skill level within a classification. 
  
2.13  

In-range  progression  –  The  term  "in-range  progression"  as  used  in  this  agreement  refers  to  an 

increase in salary within a salary range or sub-range. 
  
2.14  

Lead Work Assignment  - The term "lead work assignment" as used in this Agreement refers to a 
written  assignment  made  by  an  appropriate  administrator  to  a  bargaining  unit  member  which  includes  a 
broad range of responsibilities for providing work direction to other bargaining unit members. 
  
2.15  

Notice - The term "notice" or "notification" as used in this Agreement in Articles 1, 3, 4, 9, 17, 21, 
24, and 25 refers to the process of providing formal and official written communication to CSEA or the 
CSU.  Unless  otherwise  expressly  agreed  upon,  notice  to  both  CSEA  and  CSU  shall  be  made  to their 
headquarter's office. 
  
2.16  

Parties  - The term "parties" as used in this Agreement refers to the CSU and the California State 

Employees' Association, SEIU Local 1000, AFL-CIO. 
  
2.17  
President - The term "President" as used in this Agreement refers to the chief executive officer of 
  
a university or college or his/her designee. The term "President" shall also refer to the Chancellor or his/her 
designee, when appropriate. 
  
2.18  
  
Skill Level  - The term "skill level" as used in this Agreement refers to a designated level within a 
classification containing skill levels that defines the requirements of a position or the duties and capabilities 
expected of an incumbent at that level. 

  
2.19  
  
maximum salary rates related to a specific skill level within a salary range. 
  
2.20  

Sub-Range - The term "sub-range" as used in this Agreement refers to the identified minimum and 

Trustees  - The term "Trustees" as used in this Agreement refers to the Board of Trustees of the 

CSU. 
  
2.21  

Union  -  The  term  "Union"  as  used  in  this  Agreement  refers  to  the  California  State  Employees' 

Association (CSEA), SEIU Local 1000, AFL-CIO, exclusive bargaining representative. 
  
2.22  
Union Representative  - The term "Union Representative" as used in this Agreement refers to a person who 
has been officially designated in writing by the Union as a Union Representative and shall include but not 
be  limited  to  Campus  Bargaining  Unit  Representatives,  Chapter  Presidents  and  Vice  Presidents,  Chapter 
Secretary/Treasurers,  Chapter  Job  Stewards,  Chapter  Chief  Job  Stewards,  Division  Chairs,  and  paid 
employees of CSEA. 
  
2.23  

Workday  -  The  term  "workday"  as  used  in  this  Agreement  refers  to  the  hours  an  employee  is 

scheduled for work on any one calendar day. 
  
2.24  
  
Worktime/Work Hours  -  The terms "worktime" and/or "work hours" as used in this Agreement 
refer to time spent in compensated employment except time spent on all paid disability leaves and workers' 
compensation. 
  
2.25  
  
Telecommuting  - The term "telecommuting" as used in this Agreement refers to the performance 
of the assigned duties and responsibilities of an employee's position in a space specifically set aside as an 
office).   
office, 

employee's 

residence 

typically 

(home 

in 

the 

The CSU retains and reserves unto itself, without limitation, whether exercised or not, all powers,  
rights,  authorities,  duties,  and  responsibilities  which  have  not  been  specifically  abridged,  delegated  or 
modified by this Agreement. 
  
 Contracting Out 
  
3.2  
  
When  the  Employer  deems  it  necessary  in  order  to  carry  out  the  mission  and  operations  of  the 
campus,  the  Employer  may  contract  out  work  provided  that  the  contracting  out  does  not  displace 
bargaining  unit  employees.  "Displacement"  includes  layoff,  demotion,  involuntary  transfer  to  a  new 
classification,  involuntary  transfer  to  a  new  location  requiring  a  change  of  residence,  and  involuntary 
timebase reductions. 
  
3.3  

The  CSU  shall  notify  the  Union  when  contracting  out  is  to  be  on  a  long-term basis. Long term 
contracting out shall mean contracting which is more than one-hundred eighty (180) days. The Union may 
request to meet and confer on the impact of contracting out work when such contracting out is to be on a 
long-term  basis.  The  CSU  shall  meet  with  the  Union  for  this purpose within thirty (30) days of such a 
request.  Notice  to  the  Union  shall  be  no  later  than  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  days  prior  to  the 
commencement  of  the  contracting  out.  In  emergency  circumstances,  when  the  University  enters  into  a 
contract  under  which  contracting  out  will  commence  in  less  than  forty  (40)  days,  when  possible, 
notification shall be made two (2) weeks prior to implementing the contract, but in no event later than ten 
(10) working days after commencement of the contracting out. 
  
3.4  

Prior to meeting and conferring on long term contracting out, the University will provide to CSEA 
all  relevant  written  information,  including  copies  of  all  bids  received,  any  cost  analysis  used  by  the 
University to evaluate the need for contracting out, and copies of all consultants' reports, if any, used by the 
University in making its decision regarding long term contracting out. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 EFFECT OF AGREEMENT 
 
4.1  

This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement of the Trustees and the Union, arrived at as the 
result  of  meeting  and  conferring.  The  terms  and  conditions  may  be  altered,  changed,  added  to,  deleted 
from,  or  modified  only  through  the  voluntary  and  mutual  consent  of  the  parties  in  an  expressed  written 
amendment  to  the  Agreement.  This  Agreement  supersedes  all  previous  Agreements,  understandings,  and 
prior practices related to matters included within this Agreement. 

In the absence of any specific provisions in this Agreement, all CSU practices and procedures are 

at the discretion of the Employer. 
  
policies affecting wages, hours and conditions of employment during the term of this Agreement. 

The  CSU  shall  provide  notification  to  the  Union  of  proposed  changes  in  written  systemwide 

Whenever possible, such notice shall be prior to the implementation of changes in such policies. 
Upon written request of the Union, the CSU shall meet and confer regarding the impact of such 

ARTICLE 3 
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 
 
3.1  

changes. 
  

Written campuswide policies shall be made available for review by employees. The Union shall be 
notified  of  changes  to  written campuswide policies affecting wages, hours and conditions of employment 
during the term of this Agreement. 
  
4.2  

The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had 
the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands with respect to any subject or matter not removed by 
law  from  the  area  of  collective  bargaining,  and  that  the  understandings  and  agreements  arrived  at  by  the 
parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Except as provided 
for in this Agreement, the CSU and the Union, for the life of this Agreement, voluntarily and unqualifiedly 
waive the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated, to bargain collectively with respect to 
any subject or matter referred to or covered by       this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter 
not  specifically  referred  to  or  covered  in  this  Agreement,  even  though  such  subjects  or  matters  may  not 
have been within the knowledge of or contemplation of  either or both of the parties at the time that they 
negotiated or signed this Agreement. 
  
 Savings Clause 
  
4.3  

If  any  provisions  of  this  Agreement  are  held  to  be  contrary  to  law  by  a  court  of  competent 
jurisdiction  or  governmental  agency  having  authority  over  the  provisions,  such  provisions  will  not  be 
deemed  valid  and  subsisting  except  to  the  extent  permitted  by  law,  but  all  other  provisions  of  this 
Agreement will continue in full force and effect. 
  
4.4  

No  later  than  sixty  (60)  days  after  a  request  by  either  party  to  meet  and  confer,  negotiations 

regarding a substitute provision(s) for the invalidated provision(s) shall commence. 
 
ARTICLE 5 
UNION RIGHTS 
  
Use of Facilities 
  
5.1  

Upon  request  of  the  Union,  the  CSU  shall  provide  at  no  cost  adequate  facilities not otherwise 

required for campus business for union meetings that may be attended by employees during non-worktime. 
  
5.2  

The Union shall bear the cost of all campus materials and supplies incident to any union meeting 

The Union shall have the use of an adequate number of designated bulletin boards for the posting 
of union material. Such bulletin boards shall be visible, accessible to employees, and in areas frequented by 
employees. 
  
5.5  

Intra-campus  mail  service  shall  be  available  to  the  Union  at  no  cost  for  official  union 
communications.  The  Union  shall  package  and  label  materials  for  convenient  handling  according  to  the 
normal specifications of  the  campus  which  shall  be  communicated  upon  the  request  of  the  Union.  The 
name of the Union shall appear on all materials sent through the campus mail service. 

Employee mailboxes, if any, may be utilized by the Union for purposes of union communication 

or union business conducted on campus. 
  
 Campus Communication 
  
5.3  

to bargaining unit employees. 
  
Bulletin Boards 
  
5.4  

A  copy  of  union  material  posted  on  bulletin  boards  and  union  material  intended  for  general 
distribution  to  employees  through  campus  mail  service  shall  be  provided  in  a  timely  manner  to  the 
appropriate administrator. The Union shall exercise responsibility for the content of such union material. 
  
Union Business 
  
5.6  
Union  business  involving  employees  shall  be  conducted  during  non-worktime  except  as  provided  for 
elsewhere in this Agreement. Union business shall not interfere with the campus programs or operations. 
  
5.7  
As  a  courtesy,  the  appropriate  administrator  shall  be  notified  of  the  presence  of  a  Union  Representative 
who  is  not  a  campus  employee  either  upon  his/her  arrival  at  the  campus  or  by  telephone  in  advance  of 
arrival.  As  a  courtesy,  upon  such  notification,  the  appropriate  administrator  shall  provide  such  a  Union 
Representative with a daily parking pass at no cost to the Union. 
  
5.8  

One (1) Campus Bargaining Unit Representative per campus for each unit (2, 5, 7 and 9) shall be 

designated by the Union to officially represent the Union. The names of these Campus Bargaining 

Unit Representatives shall be provided in writing to the President. 

  
Employee Lists 
  
5.9  

to 

The  campus  Human  Resources  Office  shall  provide 

the  Campus  Bargaining  Unit 
Representative upon written request a monthly list of all employees new to bargaining units 2, 5, 7 and 9. 
Such  lists  shall  contain  names  and  work  locations  and  shall  be  provided  at  no  cost  to  the  Union.  An 
employee's  home  address  shall  be  released to the Union unless the employee has officially informed the 
CSU that he/she wishes the home address withheld. 
  
5.10  
  

Upon  written  request  of  the  Union,  employee  lists  (with  name,  classification,  hire  date  and 
department) and public information  shall be provided to the Campus Bargaining Unit Representative in a 
timely manner. The cost of such employee lists and public information shall be borne by the Union except 
as provided elsewhere in the Agreement. 
  
Release Time for Union Business 
  
5.11  
  

a.  The  CSU  shall  provide  release  time  for  up  to  ten  (10)  people  employed  by  the  CSU  for  each 
scheduled meet and confer session. Normally, the Union shall provide the Office of the Chancellor 
with  the  names  of  the  employees  for  whom  release  time  is  being  requested  at  least  two  (2) 
working  days  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  meet  and  confer  session(s).  Additional  release 
time shall be provided on an individual basis to meet special needs related to transportation and 
work schedules. 
Upon the Union's request, such additional release time may include granting no more than one (1) 
additional  day  prior  to  the  scheduled  meet  and  confer  session  for  an  employee  whose  workday 
ends between midnight and 6:00 a.m. The parties may mutually agree to provide release time for 
bargaining  unit  members  to  caucus  upon  request  by  CSEA.  Upon  request  an  employee  on  the 
bargaining team on swing or graveyard shift shall be reassigned to the day shift for the duration of 
bargaining.  

  

b.  The  CSEA/CSU  Division  Director,  or  his/her  designee, and the Bargaining Unit Chairpersons of 
bargaining  units  2,  5,  7  and  9  or  their  designees  shall  be  provided  with  release  time  to  attend 

Board of Trustees meetings. Such requests shall be submitted to the Office of the Chancellor far 
enough in advance to permit scheduling of CSEA speakers pursuant to rules and regulations of the 
Trustees, and to arrange the appropriate release time.  

c.  Upon request of the Union, the President may authorize an unpaid leave of absence for any Union 
Representative for up to one year for union business. Such leave shall not be unreasonably denied 
and, if granted, shall conform to Article 16, Leaves of Absence Without Pay. 

d.  The  CSEA  and  the  CSU  agree  that  effective  July  1,  1999,  an  annual  allotment  of  five  hundred 
seventy-six  (576)  days  will  be  available,  as  requested  by  CSEA,  for  union  representatives  to 
conduct union business at the campus on which that Union Representative is employed, provided 
that all the requirements of Provision 5.6 are met. The allotment of five hundred seventy-six (576) 
days  will  be  used  on  a  fiscal  year  basis  from  July  1  through  June  30  of  each  year  of  the 
Agreement. 
Requests for release time under this provision shall be submitted in writing to the campus Human 
Resources Office or other designee at least three (3) days prior to the date of leave. The campus 
shall grant such requests provided operational needs are met. The CSEA shall submit to the CSU 
thirty  (30)  days  in  advance  of  the  first  date  of  leave  requested  the  names  of  the  Union 
Representatives at each campus who shall be eligible for such leave.  

The  term  "no  cost"  as  used  in  this  Article  shall  be  exclusive  of  actual  overtime  costs  or 
extraordinary  clean-up  costs  incurred  by  the  CSU  in  complying  with  the  provisions  of  this  Article.  Such 
costs shall be borne by the Union. When the meeting request is submitted and the Union inquires, the CSU 
shall inform the Union whether or not costs shall be charged. 
  
Union Leave 
  
5.13  
 

Upon written request of not less than two (2) working days from the Union to the Office of the 

Chancellor, the CSU shall grant a union leave without loss of compensation to any Union Representative. 
  

a.  Such  a  leave  may  be  partial  or  full-time  and  shall  not  be  less  than  one  (1)  day  for  exempt 
employees  and  shall  be  on  an  hour  for  hour  basis  for  non-exempt employees. No leave may be 
more than one (1) year in duration. An employee on such a leave shall continue to earn service 
credit and retirement credit. An employee on such a leave shall have the right to return to his/her 
former  position  upon  expiration  of  the  leave.  Such  a  leave  shall  not  constitute  a  break  in  the 
employee's  continuous  service  for  the  purpose  of  salary  adjustments,  sick  leave,  vacation  or 
seniority. 

b.  The CSU shall be reimbursed by the Union for all compensation paid the employee on account of 
such leave and for any incidental costs. Reimbursement by the Union shall be made no later than 
thirty  (30)  days  after  its  receipt  of  the  CSU  certification  of  payment  of  compensation  to  the 
employee. 

c.  Such  a  union  leave  in  accordance  with  this  Article  shall  also  be  provided  to  a  bargaining  unit 

employee upon becoming CSEA Statewide President. 

  

  

  
5.12  
  

  

  

  
5.14  
  

An employee shall not suffer reprisals for participation in union activities.  

  
Union Security 
  

It is the intent of this Article to provide payroll deduction for CSEA members to be deducted from 
their  pay  warrants  insofar  as  permitted  by  law.  The  CSU  agrees  to  deduct  and  transmit  to  CSEA  all 
authorized deductions from all CSEA members within the bargaining units (2, 5, 7 and 9) who have signed 
and  approved  authorization  cards  for  such  deduction  on  a  form  provided  by  CSEA,  less  necessary 
administrative costs incurred by the State Controller. 
  
5.16  
  

The written authorization for CSEA deduction shall remain in full force and effect during the life 
of  this  Agreement  provided,  however,  that  any  employee  may  withdraw  from  CSEA  by  sending  a 
withdrawal letter to CSEA within thirty (30) calendar days prior to the expiration of this Agreement. 
  
5.17  
  

Upon movement  of an employee out of the bargaining unit, the employee may elect to withdraw 
from CSEA. Such withdrawal shall not be permitted if the employee moves to another bargaining unit in 
which CSEA is the exclusive representative and in which the Agreement contains a provision such as 5.16 
above. 
  
5.18  
  

The amount of dues deducted from the CSEA members' pay warrants shall be sent to CSEA and 

changed by the CSU upon written request of CSEA. 
  
5.19  
  

 
Employees shall be free to join or not to join the Union. The Human Resources Office on each 

5.15  
 

campus shall make available to new employees Union membership material provided by the CSEA. 
  
5.20  
  

CSEA  agrees  to  indemnify,  defend,  and  hold  the  CSU  harmless  against  any  claim  made  of  any 
nature and against any suit instituted against the CSU arising from its payroll deduction for CSEA dues and 
deductions. 
   
ARTICLE 6 
CONCERTED ACTIVITIES 
 
6.1  
  

Employees shall not engage in strikes or any other concerted activity which would interfere with 
or  adversely  affect  the  operations  or  mission  of  the  CSU.  The  Union  shall  play  a  responsible  role  in 
preventing  any  employee  from  participating  in  any  such  concerted  activity  and  shall  notify  employees  of 
such prohibitions. 
  
6.2  
  

The  Union  shall  not  promote,  organize  or  support  any  strike  or  other  concerted  activity  which 

would interfere with or adversely affect the operations or mission of the CSU. 
  
6.3  
  

The CSU agrees that it will not lock out any bargaining unit employee(s). 

ARTICLE 7 
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
 
Definitions 
  
7.1  
 
Grievance  -  The  term  "grievance"  as  used  in  this  Article  refers  to  the  filed  allegation  by  a  grievant  that 
there has been a violation, misapplication, or misinterpretation of a specific term(s) of this Agreement. 
  
7.2  
  

Grievant - The term "grievant" as used in this Article refers to a: 

a.  permanent employee(s); 
b.  probationary employee(s); 
c. 

temporary employee(s) employed for more than ninety (90) consecutive days immediately prior to 
the event giving rise to the grievance; 
intermittent employee(s); 

d. 

 who  allege(s)  in  a  grievance  that  he/she/they  has/have  been  directly  wronged  by  a  violation, 
misapplication, or misinterpretation of a specific term(s) of this Agreement. 

 
The  term  "grievant,"  as  used  in  this  Article,  may  refer  to  the  Union  when  alleging  a  violation, 

misapplication, or misinterpretation of a specific term(s) of this Agreement. 
  
7.3  
  

Representative - The term "representative" as used in this Article shall be a Union Representative 
or  an  employee  who,  at  the  grievant's  request,  may  be  present  at  all  levels  through  Level  IV.  
Representation at Level V shall be by the Union only. 
  
7.4  
  

Respond and File  -  The  terms  "respond"  and  "file"  as  used  in  this  Agreement  refer  to  personal 
delivery  or  deposit  in  the  U.S.  mail.  If  mail  delivery  is  used,  it  shall include a proof of service by mail 
which  shall  establish  the  date  of  response  or  filing.  If  personal  delivery  is  used,  the  calendar  date  of 
delivery shall establish the date of response or filing. A copy of all responses shall be concurrently served 
on the grievant's representative. 
  
Level I - Informal 
  
7.5  
  

A grievant shall have the right to present a potential grievance and to have that potential grievance 
considered in good faith. The grievant and representative, if any, shall discuss the potential  grievance with 
the immediate non-bargaining unit supervisor no later than thirty (30) days after the event giving rise to the 
potential  grievance,  or  no  later  than  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  grievant  knew  or  reasonably  should  have 
known of the event giving rise to the potential grievance. 
  
7.6  
  

The grievant shall attempt to resolve the potential grievance informally with the immediate non-
bargaining  unit  supervisor.  The  immediate  non-bargaining unit supervisor shall provide a verbal response 
to the grievant as soon as possible after the Level I meeting. 
  
7.7  
 

  
Level II - Formal 
  
7.8  
 

  
7.9  
 

If  the  potential  grievance  is  not  resolved  at  Level  I,  Informal,  the  grievant  may  file  a  Level  II 
grievance with the appropriate administrator no later than fourteen (14) days after the Level I meeting. The 
grievant shall state on a grievance form agreed to by the parties and provided by CSEA: 

the specific term(s) of the Agreement alleged to have been violated; 

a. 
b.  a detailed description of the grounds of the grievance including names, dates, places, and times; 
c.  a proposed remedy; 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g.  date of submission. 

the name, classification, mailing address, and signature of the grievant; 
the name and telephone number of the representative, if any; 
the name and address of the Union, if the representative is acting as an agent of the Union; and 

A resolution of a potential grievance at the informal level shall not be precedent setting. 

Failure to provide the required information in items 7.8 (a) through (g) will be grounds for the 
return of the grievance to the grievant. A copy of the grievance shall also be sent to the union representative 
handling the case and to CSEA Headquarters. If the grievance is not amended and returned within twenty-
one (21) days, the grievance will be deemed withdrawn. 
  
7.10  
  

The  appropriate  administrator  shall  hold  a  meeting  with  the  grievant  and  the  grievant's 
representative, if any, at a mutually acceptable time and location within ten (10) days after receipt of the 
grievance.  The  appropriate  administrator  shall respond to the grievant no later than fifteen (15) days after 
the Level II meeting. 
  
Level III 
  
7.11  
  

In the event the grievance is not settled at Level II, the grievant may file the Level III grievance 
with the President no later than fourteen (14) days after the Level II response. If a settlement is proposed at 
Level  II,  the  grievant  should  include  a  written  statement  relevant  to  the  settlement  proposal.  Within 
fourteen (14) days after receipt of the Level III filing, the President shall hold a meeting with the grievant 
and  the  grievant's  representative,  if  any,  at  a  mutually  acceptable  time  and  location.  The  President  shall 
respond to the grievant no later than twenty-one (21) days after the Level III meeting. 
  
7.12  
  

The  grievant  shall  present at Level III all issues and evidence known, or which could have been 
reasonably known, related to the grievance. Additional issues and/or evidence which become known after 
the Level III meeting shall be allowed to be presented and may be cause for the grievance to be remanded 
to Level II based on mutual agreement of the parties. Issues and/or evidence must be made known before 
filing the grievance at Level V.  
  
7.13  
  

Amendments  and/or  modifications  to  the  grievance  shall  not  be  made  by  the  grievant  after the 

Level III filing date except as provided for in Provision 7.12. 
  
7.14  

Prior to the Level III response date, the parties may, by mutual agreement, waive all procedures at 
Level  III  and  expedite  the  grievance  to  Level  IV.  Level  IV  time  limits  shall  commence  on  the  date  the 
agreement to expedite was reached. 
  
Level IV 
  
7.15  
  

In  the  event  the  grievance  is  not  settled  at  Level  III,  the  grievant  may  file  a  written  request  for 
review with the Office of the Chancellor no later than fourteen (14) days  after the Level III response. The 
grievant shall attach a copy of the Level II and Level III responses together with any documents presented 
at those levels. 
  
7.16  
 

Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the Level IV filing, the representative of the grievant shall 
schedule a conference, at a mutually acceptable time and location with a designated individual in the Office 
of the Chancellor for the purpose of reviewing the matter. The designated individual in the Office of the 
Chancellor shall respond no later than twenty-one (21) days after the conference. 
The original Level IV response from the Office of the Chancellor shall be sent to the Union representative 
handling the case at Level IV. A copy of the Level IV response shall be sent to the grievant as long as the 
grievant  provides  an  address  on  the  grievance  form.  A  copy  of  the  response  shall  be  sent  to  CSEA 
Headquarters.  If  the  grievant  has  not  provided  an  address,  the  grievant's  copy  shall  be  sent  to  CSEA 
Headquarters and CSEA will deliver it to the grievant. 
  
Level V - Arbitration 
  
7.17  
  

If  the  grievance  has  not  been  settled  at  Level  IV,  the  Union  alone  may,  no  later  than  forty  (40) 
days  after  the  Level  IV  response,  submit  the  grievance  to  arbitration  by  giving  notice  to  that  effect  by 
certified mail, return receipt requested, directed to the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Human Resources 
and Operations. 
  
7.18  
  

The  parties  hereby  designate  Sara  Adler,  Tom  Angelo,  Howard  Block,  Norman  Brand,  Richard 
Calister,  Douglas  Collins,  Christine  Knowlton,  Thomas  Roberts,  and  Carlton  Snow  as  members  of  the 
Arbitration  Panel  under  this  Agreement.  The  panel  members  shall  be  designated  to  serve  in  the  order  of 
rotation  noted  above,  provided  the  panel  member  reached  has  an  available  day  within  one  hundred  and 
twenty  days  (120)  of  notification,  or  the  parties  mutually  agree  to  a  later  date.  Either  party  to  the 
Agreement may peremptorily challenge one panel member at any time during the term of this Agreement 
and  such  panel  member  shall  be  removed  from  the  panel  and  replaced  with  a  mutually  acceptable 
replacement.  Subsequent  to  ratification  of  the  Agreement  the  parties  shall  attempt  to  agree  to  one  (1) 
additional arbitrator to be added to the panel. 
  
7.19  
  

  

If  an  arbitrability  question  exists,  the  arbitrator  shall determine the arbitrability question prior to 
hearing the merits of the grievance. The arbitrator may proceed to hear the merits of the grievance prior to 
meeting the requirements of Provision 7.20 below. 
  

a.  When the grievance is found not arbitrable, the grievance shall be deemed null and void. 
 
b.  When the grievance is found to be arbitrable, the arbitrator shall hear the merits of the grievance. 

c.  Provision 7.19 above shall not prohibit the parties from mutually agreeing to a second arbitration 
hearing  on the merits of the grievance or from mutually agreeing to select a second arbitrator to 
hear the merits of the grievance. 

The  arbitrator's  award  shall  be  in  writing  and  shall  set  forth  his/her  findings,  reasonings,  and 

conclusions on the issue(s) submitted. 
  
7.21  
  

The  Voluntary  Labor  Arbitration  Rules  of  the  American  Arbitration  Association  shall  apply  at 

 
7.20  
 

Level V. 
  
7.22  
  

 

 

 

 

 

  
7.23  
 

  
7.24  
 

It shall be the function of the arbitrator to rule on the specific grievance. The arbitrator shall be 

subject to the following limitations: 
  

a.  The  arbitrator's  award  shall  be  based  solely  upon  the  evidence  and  arguments  appropriately 

presented in the hearing and upon any post-hearing briefs. 

 
b.  The arbitrator shall have no power to alter, add to, detract from, or amend the provisions of this 

Agreement. 

c.  The arbitrator shall not consider any issue not raised by the parties at Level IV of this Article.  The 
arbitrator  shall  not  consider  any  evidence  which  was  known  or  reasonably  should  have  been 
known and not raised by the parties at Level IV of this Article. 

d.  Under  no  circumstances  may  an  arbitrator  make  an  award  which  will  supersede  the  President's 

judgment on subjective business decisions. 

e.  The award of the arbitrator may or may not include back pay. Any back pay award shall be less 
any  compensation  that  the  employee  received,  including  unemployment  compensation.  Under  no 
circumstances may interest be included in an award. 

f.  The  standard  of  review  for  the  arbitrator  is  whether  the  CSU  violated,  misapplied,  or 

misinterpreted a specific term(s) of this Agreement. 

The arbitrator's award shall be final and binding on both parties. 

A witness who is an employee shall be excused from worktime to appear at an arbitration hearing 
with no loss of pay. Other expenses of any witness called before the arbitrator shall be borne by the party 
calling the witness. 
  
7.25  
  

Each party shall bear the expense of preparing and presenting its own case. The cost of arbitration, 
excluding advocate, unilateral withdrawal, postponement, or cancellation fee, shall be borne equally by the 
parties. 
  

7.26  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  process  to  schedule  a  grievance  for  an  arbitration  hearing  shall  be  initiated  by  a  written 

request from the representative of the Union to the designated individual in the Office of the Chancellor.  

The  request  shall  be  for  the  parties  to  select  an  arbitrator  pursuant  to  Provision  7.18.  Any 
grievance  filed  into  arbitration  shall  be  considered  withdrawn  by  the  Union  if  it  has  not  been  scheduled 
within twelve (12) months of the filing to arbitration from Level IV and no written request has been made 
by the Union. Within the twelve (12) months the parties shall confirm with an arbitrator that a hearing date 
has been set. 
  
7.27 Mediation 
  

The  parties  agree  to  participate  in  a  mediation  for  the  purpose  of  compromising,  settling,  or 

resolving a grievance. Grievances may be subject to mediation in accordance with the following: 
  

a.  The party requesting mediation shall request mediation within thirty (30) calendar days after the 

Union has filed a request for arbitration. 

b.  Grievances shall not proceed to mediation except by the mutual agreement of both parties. 

c.  The  timelines  and  order  of  the  scheduling  of  grievances  for  arbitration  pursuant  to  this  Article 

shall not be affected by the parties' desire to invoke mediation. 

d.  The parties shall establish a panel of three (3) mediators by mutual agreement, to serve in the north 
and  in  the  south  and  who  shall  serve  in  alphabetical  rotation.  The  panel  shall  consist  of  Louis 
Zigman, Ken Cloke and Kathy Kelly. Members of the arbitration panel established pursuant to this 
Article shall not be eligible to serve on this mediation panel. 

e.  The  procedures  set  forth  in  California  Evidence  Code  Section  1152.5  shall  be  applicable  to 

mediation conducted pursuant to this Agreement. 

f.  All costs of mediation shall be borne equally by both parties. 

g.  The recommendations of a mediator, if any, shall be advisory only and shall not be binding upon 
the  parties.  Neither  party  shall  attempt  to  enter  into  evidence  at  a  subsequent  arbitration hearing 
any recommendation(s) of the mediator. 

  
General Provisions 
  
7.28  
  

Failure  of  the  grievant  to  comply  with  the  time  limitations  of  this  Article  shall  render  the 
grievance  null  and  void  and  bar  subsequent  filing  of  this  grievance.  Failure  by  the  appropriate 
administrator, President, or designated individual in the Office of the Chancellor to timely respond under 
this Article shall permit the grievance to be filed at the next level. 
  
7.29  
  

Time  limits  set  forth  in  this  Article  may  be  extended  by  mutual  agreement.  If  the  grievant, 
representative, if any, or appropriate administrator is on a leave for seven (7) days or more, but less than 
one year, the time limits shall be extended by the length of time of such leave. 
  
7.30  
  

In  cases  where  it  is  necessary  for  the  grievant  or  his/her  representative  to  have  access  to 
information for the purpose of investigating a grievance, the grievant or his/her representative shall make a 

written request for such information to the appropriate administrator. The grievant or his/her representative 
shall have access to all information within the policies and procedures defining confidentiality which would 
assist in adjusting the grievance. 
  
7.31  
  

The  processing  of  grievances  filed  and  unresolved  prior  to  the effective date of the Agreement 

may continue under the grievance procedure in effect at the time of the initial filing. 
  
7.32  
  

A decision by the Union to submit a grievance to arbitration shall automatically be a waiver of all 

other remedies except as provided otherwise by statute. 
  
7.33  
  

A grievance settled prior to arbitration shall not be precedent setting. 

A  grievant  may  withdraw  a  grievance  at  any  time.  The  grievant  shall  not  file  any  subsequent 

grievance on the same alleged incident. 
  
7.35  
  

The parties, by mutual agreement, may consolidate grievances on similar issues at any level. 

  
7.34  
  

  
7.36  
  

  

 

 

By mutual agreement, a grievance may be filed at the level at which the authority to resolve the 

grievance resides. 
  
7.37  
  

Prior to filing a grievance, the potential grievant and representative, if any, shall each be provided 
with one (1) hour release time for grievance preparation and reasonable time for grievance presentation at 
the informal level. 
  
7.38  
  

After  the  grievance  has  been  filed, a representative and the grievant shall be provided reasonable 

release time for the purpose of preparation and presentation of the grievance. 
  
7.39  
  

The procedures for securing release time for grievance processing shall be: 

a.  Representatives and  potential grievants shall contact the appropriate administrator if release time 
is  required  to  prepare  and  present  a  grievance  at  the  informal  Level.  The  representative  and 
potential grievant shall be required to cite only Provision 7.37 as a statement of need. 

b.  Release time requested pursuant to Provision 7.38 shall require the citation of only Provision 7.38 

as a statement of need. 

c. 

In  either  case,  the  appropriate  administrator  shall  grant  the  contractually  specified  release  time 
after considering the needs of the operation of the University. 

d.  Requests  for  release  time  shall  include:  (1)  at  what  time  and  location;  and  (2)  the  anticipated 

duration of the meeting. 

Both  parties  agree  that  all  grievance  files  shall  be  confidential.  Both  parties  agree  that specific 

 

 
7.40  
  

statements made and records used in grievance meetings shall be confidential. 
  
7.41  
  

An employee may present grievances and have such grievances adjusted without the intervention 
of the Union as long as adjustment is reached prior to Level V; provided such adjustment is not inconsistent 
with  the  terms  of  a  written  agreement  then  in  effect;  and  provided  that  the  CSU  will  not  agree  to  a 
resolution  of  the  grievance  until  the  Union  has  received  a  copy  of  the  grievance  and  the  proposed 
resolution, and has been given the opportunity to file a response. 
  
7.42  
 

The procedure (Article 7, Grievance Procedure, or Article 8, Complaint Procedure) utilized by the 
employee at the Level III filing shall indicate a final and binding selection of procedures. Prior to the Level 
III  filing,  the  employee  may  convert  to  the  alternative  procedure  without  interruption  of  time  limits  nor 
sequence of levels. If both a grievance and a complaint are filed at Level III on the same issue, either the 
grievance  or  the  complaint  shall  be  withdrawn  prior  to  the  Level  III  hearing.  (This  language  is  for 
clarification purposes only.) 
  

Except  as  provided  for  in  the  paragraph  above,  an  employee  may  not  utilize  both  Article  7, 
Grievance Procedure, and Article 8, Complaint Procedure, to adjust the allegations arising from a single set 
of circumstances.  

ARTICLE 8 
COMPLAINT PROCEDURE 
 
Definitions 
  
8.1  
 

Complaint  -  The  term  "complaint"  as  used  in  this  Article  refers  to  a  filed  allegation  by  a 
complainant  that  there  has  been  a  violation, misapplication, or misinterpretation of a specific CSU policy 
governing working conditions or CSU work rule. 
  
8.2  
 

Complainant - The term "complainant" as used in this Article refers to a: 

a.  permanent employee(s); 
b.  probationary employee(s);  
c. 

temporary employee(s) employed for more than ninety (90) consecutive days immediately prior to 
the event giving rise to the complaint; 
intermittent employee(s);  

d. 

      who  allege(s)  in  a  complaint  that  he/she/they  has/have  been  directly  wronged  by  a  violation, 
misapplication, or misinterpretation of a specific term(s) of a CSU policy governing working conditions or 
CSU work rules. 
  

The term "complainant," as used in this Article, may refer to the Union when alleging a violation, 
misapplication, or misinterpretation of a specific term(s) of a CSU policy governing working conditions or 
CSU work rules. 
  

When an employee alleges a violation, misapplication or misinterpretation of a CSU policy which 
prohibits  sexual  harassment  and/or  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  race,  religion,  color,  sex,  sexual 
orientation,  age,  disability,  Vietnam-era veteran status, marital status and/or national origin, the employee 
may address his/her complaint to the Campus Affirmative Action Officer or other appropriate administrator 
specifically designated to review sexual harassment and/or discrimination complaints. This may be instead 
of the immediate non-bargaining unit supervisor, as provided in Provisions 8.5 and 8.6, and the appropriate 
administrator, as provided in Provisions 8.8 and 8.9, below, and shall be at the employee's option. 
  
8.3  
  

Representative - The term "representative" as used in this Article shall be a Union Representative 

or an employee who, at the complainant's request, may be present at all levels through Level IV. 
  
8.4  
 

Respond and File  -  The  terms  "respond"  and  "file"  as  used  in  this  Agreement  refer  to  personal 
delivery  or  deposit  in  the  U.S.  mail.  If  mail  delivery  is  used,  it  shall  include  a  proof  of  service  by  mail 
which  shall  establish  the  date  of  response  or  filing.  If  personal  delivery  is  used,  the  calendar  date  of 
delivery shall establish the date of response or filing. A copy of all responses shall be concurrently served 
on the complainant's representative. 
  
Level I - Informal 
  
8.5  
 

A  complainant  shall  have  the  right  to  present  a  potential  complaint  and  to  have  that  potential 
complaint considered in good faith. The complainant and representative, if any, shall discuss the potential 
complaint with the immediate non-bargaining unit supervisor no later than thirty (30) days after the event 

giving  rise  to  the  potential  complaint,  or  no  later  than  thirty  (30)  days  after  the  complainant  knew  or 
reasonably should have known of the event giving rise to the potential complaint.  
  
8.6  
  

The  complainant  shall  attempt to resolve the potential complaint informally with the immediate 
non-bargaining  unit  supervisor.  The  immediate  non-bargaining  unit  supervisor  shall  provide  a  verbal 
response to the complainant as soon as possible after the Level I meeting. 
  
8.7  
 

A resolution of a potential complaint at the informal level shall not be precedent setting. 

  
Level II - Formal 
  
8.8  
 

  
8.9  
  

If the potential complaint is not resolved at Level I, Informal, the complainant may file a Level II 

complaint with the appropriate administrator no later than fourteen (14) days after the Level I meeting.  
  
      The complaint shall state on a complaint form agreed to by the parties and provided by CSEA: 

a. 

the specific term(s) of the CSU policy governing working conditions or CSU work rule alleged to 
have been violated; 

b.  a detailed description of the grounds of the complaint including names, dates, places, and times; 
c.  a proposed remedy; 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 

the name, classification, mailing address, and signature of the complainant; 
the name and telephone number of the representative, if any; 
the name and address of the Union, if the representative is acting as an agent of the Union; and 
the date of submission. 

The  appropriate  administrator  shall  hold  a  meeting  with  the  complainant  and  the  complainant's 
representative, if any, at a mutually acceptable time and location within ten (10) days after receipt of the 
complaint. The appropriate administrator shall respond to the complainant no later than fifteen (15) days 
after the Level II meeting. 
  
Level III 
  
8.10  
  

In  the  event  the  complaint  is  not  settled  at  Level  II,  the  complainant  may  file  the  Level  III 
complaint with the President no later than fourteen (14) days after the Level II response. If a settlement is 
proposed  at  Level  II,  the  complainant  should  include  a  written  statement  relevant  to  the  settlement 
proposal. Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the Level III filing, the President shall hold a meeting 
with  the  complainant  and  the  complainant's  representative,  if  any,  at  a  mutually  acceptable  time  and 
location. The President shall respond to the complainant no later than twenty-one (21) days after the Level 
III  meeting.  The  Level  III  response  shall  be  a  final  decision  when  alleging  a  violation  of  a  campus 
policy/rule. 
  
8.11  
  

The  complainant  shall  present  at  Level  III  all  issues  and  evidence  known,  or  which  could  have 
been reasonably known, related to the complaint. Additional issues and/or evidence which become known 
after the Level III meeting shall be allowed to be presented and may be the cause for the complaint to be 

Prior to the Level III response date, the parties may, by mutual agreement, waive all procedures at 
Level  III  and  expedite  the  complaint  to  Level  IV  when  there  has  been  an  allegation  of  a  violation  of  a 
systemwide  policy/rule.  Level  IV  time  limits  shall  commence  on  the  date  the  agreement  to  expedite  was 
reached. 
  
8.14  
 

An allegation of a violation of a campus policy/rule shall not be filed beyond Level III.  

  
Level IV 
  
8.15  
 

reviewed again at Level III based on mutual agreement of the parties. Such issues and/or evidence must be 
made known before filing the complaint at Level IV when alleging a violation of a systemwide policy/rule. 
  
8.12  
 

Amendments and/or modifications to the complaint shall not be made by the complainant after the 

Level III filing date except as provided for in Provision 8.11. 
  
8.13  
  

In the event the complaint is not settled at Level III, the complainant may file a written request for 
review with the Office of the Chancellor no later than fourteen (14) days after the Level III response. The 
complainant  shall  attach  a  copy  of  the  Level  II  and  Level  III  responses  together  with  any  documents 
presented at those levels. 
  
 8.16  
  

Within  fourteen  (14)  days  of  the  Level  IV  filing,  the  representative  of  the  complainant  shall 
schedule a conference at a mutually acceptable time and location with a designated individual in the Office 
of the Chancellor for the purpose of reviewing the matter. The designated individual in the Office of the 
Chancellor  shall  respond  no  later  than  twenty-one (21) days after the conference. The Level IV response 
shall be a final decision. The original Level IV response from the Office of the Chancellor shall be sent to 
the Union representative handling the case at Level IV. A copy of the Level IV response shall be sent to the 
complainant as long as the complainant provides an address on the complaint form. A copy of the response 
shall  be  sent  to  CSEA  Headquarters.  If  the  complainant  has  not  provided  an  address,  the  complainant's 
copy shall be sent to CSEA Headquarters and CSEA will deliver it to the complainant. 
  
General Provisions 
  
8.17  
  

Failure  of  the  complainant  to  comply  with  the  time  limitations  of  this  Article  shall  render  the 
complaint  null  and  void  and  bar  subsequent  filing  of  this  complaint.  Failure  by  the  appropriate 
administrator or President to timely respond under this Article shall permit the complaint to be filed at the 
next level. 
  
8.18  
  

Time  limits  set  forth  in  this  Article  may  be  extended  by  mutual  agreement.  If  the  complainant, 
representative, if any, or appropriate administrator is on a leave for seven (7) days or more, but less than 
one year, the time limits shall be extended by the length of time of such leave. 
  
8.19  

In  cases  where  it  is  necessary  for  the  complainant  or  his/her  representative  to  have  access  to 
information  for  the  purpose  of  investigating  a  complaint,  the  complainant  or  his/her  representative  shall 
make a written request for such information to the appropriate administrator. The complainant or his/her 
representative  shall  have  access  to  all  information  within  the  policies  and  procedures  defining 
confidentiality which would assist in adjusting the complaint. 
  
8.20  
  

The  processing  of  complaints  filed  and  unresolved  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  the Agreement 

may continue under the complaint procedure in effect at the time of the initial filing. 
  
8.21  
  

A  complainant  may  withdraw  a  complaint  at  any  time.  The  complainant  shall  not  file  any 

subsequent complaint on the same alleged incident. 
  
8.22  
  

The parties, by mutual agreement, may consolidate complaints on similar issues at any level. 

By mutual agreement, a complaint may be filed at the level at which the authority to resolve the 

Prior  to  filing  a  complaint,  the  potential  complainant  and  representative,  if  any,  shall  each  be 
provided  with  one  (1)  hour  release  time  for  complaint  preparation  and  reasonable  time  for  complaint 
presentation at the Informal Level. 
  
8.25  
  

After  the  complaint  has  been  filed,  a  representative  and  the  complainant  shall  be  provided 

reasonable release time for the purpose of preparation and presentation of the complaint. 
  
8.26  
  

The procedures for securing release time for complaint processing shall be: 

a.  Representatives  and  potential  complainants  shall  contact  the  appropriate  administrator  if  release 
time is required to prepare and present a complaint at the Informal Level. The representative and 
potential complainant shall be required to cite only Provision 8.24 as a statement of need. 

b.  Release time requested pursuant to Provision 8.25 shall require the citation of only Provision 8.25 

as a statement of need. 

c. 

In either case, the appropriate administrator shall grant the contractually specified release time. 

d.  Requests  for  release  time  shall  include:  (1)  at  what  time  and  location;  and  (2)  the  anticipated 

duration of the meeting. 

  
8.23  
  

complaint resides. 
  
8.24  
  

  

  

 

 

 

 
8.27  
  

Both parties agree that all complaint files shall be confidential. In addition, all settlements related 
to  sexual  harassment  and  discrimination  complaints shall be confidential. Both parties agree that specific 
statements made and records used in complaint meetings shall be confidential. 
  
8.28  
  

An employee may present complaints and have such complaints adjusted without the intervention 
of  the  Union provided such adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of a written agreement then in 
effect and provided that the Employer will not agree to a resolution of the complaint until the Union has 
received a copy of the complaint and the proposed resolution, and has been given the opportunity to file a 
response. 
  
8.29  
  

The procedure (Article 7, Grievance Procedure, or Article 8, Complaint Procedure) utilized by the 
employee at the Level III filing shall indicate a final and binding selection of procedures. Prior to the Level 
III  filing,  the  employee  may  convert  to  the  alternative  procedure  without  interruption  of  time  limits  or 
sequence of levels. 
  

Except  as  provided  for  in  the  paragraph  above,  an  employee  may  not  utilize  both  Article  7, 
Grievance Procedure, and Article 8, Complaint Procedure, to adjust the allegations arising from a single set 
of circumstances.  

 

ARTICLE 9 
EMPLOYEE STATUS 
 
Appointment 
  
9.1  
  

Campus  position  vacancies,  except  for  temporary  positions  of  ninety  (90)  days  or  less,  shall be 
posted  for  fourteen  (14)  days  in  the  campus  Human  Resources  Office  and  should  be  announced  in  the 
position  vacancy  announcement.  The  CSU  shall  post  campus  position  vacancies  on  appropriate  bulletin 
boards and may post on the campus electronic web site. Campuses that maintain a telephone "job line" shall 
endeavor to continue such a service. Such announcements shall include the classification title, skill level, 
description  of  duties,  desirable  experience,  minimum  qualifications  (when  applicable),  salary  range  or 
subrange applicable to a skill level, specialized skills (if any), and procedures to be followed by applicants 
applying  for  such  vacancies.  Other  position  vacancy  notices  received  by  the  campus  Human  Resources 
Office shall be made available in the campus Human Resources Office.  
  
9.2  
  

An  employee  who  believes  he/she  is  qualified  for  a  vacant  position  at  a  CSU  campus  or  the 
Chancellor's Office may apply for such position within the specified application period.  Applications shall 
be  submitted  to  the  appropriate  Human  Resources  Office.  An  employee  may  submit,  along  with  an 
application, a statement regarding his/her experience and service within the CSU. Such a statement shall be 
a part of the employee's application. CSU documents regarding any meritorious service by the employee at 
the CSU may also be submitted by the employee with an application. It shall be the policy of the CSU in 
filling vacant bargaining unit positions to fill such vacancies from among qualified individuals currently 
employed at a campus. The President may appoint outside applicants when he/she determines such action is 
necessary to: (1) attain the affirmative action goals and objectives of the campus; (2) meet the best interest 
of the campus by  obtaining specialized skills and abilities not available from current employees. 
  
9.3  
  

An employee who submits an application for a position may be required to successfully complete 
job-related  performance  examination(s)/test(s)  as  part  of  the  selection  process.  The  results  of  such 
examination(s)/test(s)  shall  be  deemed  confidential  and  shall  not  become  part  of  the  employee's  official 
personnel file. Such examination(s)/test(s) shall be job-related and shall be administered equitably to each 
applicant. Upon request, an employee shall be given the results of his/her examination(s)/test(s). 
  
9.4  
  

Appointments  shall  be  made  by  the  President.  Appointments  may  be  temporary,  probationary  or 
permanent.  Appointments  to  vacant  positions  shall  be  made  through  official  written  notification  by  the 
President.  Such  notification  shall  be  provided  upon  employment  or  as  soon  as  possible  thereafter. 
Notification shall include the classification title, skill level (when applicable), and timebase to which the 
employee  is  being  appointed,  the  initial  salary, the employment status of the employee, and the effective 
date of the appointment. A temporary appointment shall specify the expiration date of the appointment and 
that the appointment may expire prior to that date. The temporary employee shall be given a minimum of 
fourteen (14) days notice if the appointment is to       be terminated prior to the specified expiration date, 
unless  circumstances  prohibit  giving  such  notice.  A  temporary  appointment  shall  not  exceed  the  time 
specified in Provision 9.38. No employee shall be deemed to be appointed in the absence of such official 
written notification from the President. 
  
9.5  
  

The President may make an initial appointment at any salary rate within the salary range or sub-

range. 
  
 9.6  
  

An  employee  appointed  to  a  position  at  another  campus  shall  transfer  his/her  accumulated  sick 
leave and retirement credit. When an employee accepts an appointment at another campus without a break 
in service, vacation credit may be transferred to the new position. 
  
Probation/Permanency 
  
9.7  
 

A  probationary  period  is  the  period  of  credited  service  an  employee  who  has  received  a 

probationary appointment shall serve prior to permanent status. 
  
9.8  
  

A probationary employee refers to an employee serving a period of probation. 

  
 Probationary Period/Credited Service 
  
9.9  
  

classification or skill level.  
  
9.10  
  

granted by the President. 
  
9.11  
  

The probationary period for an employee is the equivalent of one (1) year of service in a particular 

Part-time  and  full-time  temporary  service  shall  count  as  credited  service  for  probation  when 

A  year  of  service  for  employees  in  twelve  (12)  month  positions  is  any  consecutive  twelve  (12) 
months of full-time employment. The period of probation for an employee in a half-time or more, but less 
than full-time, position is the equivalent of one year of service. 
  
 9.12  
  

For employees serving in ten (10) month positions, a year of service is the equivalent of ten (10) 
months  of  full-time  employment  within  a  twelve  (12)  month  period  of  time.  The  ten  (10)  months  of 
required service for each twelve (12) month period shall be determined by the President upon appointment 
of the employee to a ten (10) month position. 
  
9.13  
  

A year of service for an employee in an academic year position is two (2) consecutive semesters or 
three (3) consecutive quarters of employment within an academic year at a timebase of fifty percent (50%) 
or more. 
  
 9.14  
  

An employee who is paid an hourly rate based upon a monthly salary rate and who works full-time 
for  twelve  (12)  consecutive  months  is  deemed  to  have  completed  a  year  of  service  for  purposes  of 
permanent status. 
  
 9.15  
 
Service in Work Training or Work Relief Programs 
  

Persons who are appointed to positions that are fully or partially funded from sources other than 
the CSU and/or the funding is in support of a program of work relief or work training for the utilization of 
the unemployed or the underemployed or prisoner/work furlough program will not receive service credit 
toward  permanent  status  while serving in such positions. The CSU shall notify the Union whenever such 
work will be performed on a campus. 
  
 9.16 Breaks in Service 
  

a.  When a probationary employee goes on a leave of absence, the President shall determine whether 
or  not  the  time  served  before  the  leave  is  counted  in  determining  the  remaining  length  of 
probationary service. 

 
b.  An employee's probationary period is extended for the same number of days such employee is on 
WC,  IDL,  NDI,  formal  LWOP  or  paid  sick  leave  of  over  thirty  (30)  days.  The President shall 
determine if there has been a break in service when a full-time probationary employee is placed on 
a partial leave of absence. 

c.  Normally, a new probationary period shall be served when an employee begins an appointment at 
another campus. However, the employee may be appointed with permanent status or credit toward 
permanency as determined by the President of the campus to which the employee is appointed. 

 

  
 Change in Position 
  
 9.17  
  

When a position is vacant, the employee selected for a position that requires movement to a new 

classification or skill level may serve a new probationary period. 
  
 9.18  

a. 

If a reclassification action is taken and the employee is placed in the new class, the employee may 
be  required  to  serve  a  new  probationary  period.  The  length  of  service  required  for  such  a  new 
probationary period shall be determined by the President and shall not exceed one (1) year.  

 
b.  A permanent employee in a position that is reclassified as a result of the implementation of a new 
classification  or  the  revision  of  a  current  classification  shall  not  be  required  to  serve  a  new 
probationary  period,  provided  the  employee  has  completed  probation  in  his/her  current 
classification and there has been no substantial change in the employee's duties.  

c.  A probationary employee in a position that is reclassified as a result of the implementation of a 
new classification or the revision of a current classification shall have all probationary service in 
his/her prior classification credited toward probation in the new or revised classification, provided 
there has been no substantial change in the employee's duties. 

  

 

  
 9.19  
  

If an employee with permanent status in a lower classification or skill level is advanced to a higher 
classification or skill level and is denied permanent status in the higher classification or skill level, he/she 
shall have the right to return to the lower classification or skill level with permanent status in that class. 
  

If  an  employee  in  a  probationary  status  in  a  lower  classification or skill level is advanced to a 
higher classification or skill level and is denied permanent status in the higher classification or skill level, 
he/she  shall  be  granted  service  credit  toward  completion  of  the  probationary  period  in  the  lower 
classification  or  skill  level  provided  the  duties  in  the  higher  classification  or  skill  level  are  substantially 
similar  to  the  duties  in  the  lower  classification  or  skill  level  and  the  employee's  performance  in  both 
classifications or skill levels has been satisfactory. 
  
 Classification Change 
  
 9.20  
  

When  an  employee  moves  to  a  lower  classification  in  the  same  occupational  group,  the 
appropriate  salary  rate  in  the  salary  range  shall  be  determined  by  combining  any  previous  service  in  the 
lower class and service in the higher classification. 
  
 9.21  
  

When an employee moves to a lower classification in another occupational group, the appropriate 
salary rate in the salary range shall be determined by the President, except that in no case shall the new rate 
exceed  the  rate  received  in  the  higher  classification.  Determination  of  the  appropriate  salary  rate  in  such 
cases  shall  be  made  by  using  the  same  criteria  as  would  be  used  for  an  initial  appointment  to  that 
classification. 
  
 9.22  
  
      When an employee moves without a break in service to a classification with a higher salary range, the 
appropriate salary rate in the salary range shall be determined by the President. The salary rate in the higher 
salary  range  shall  be  at  least  a  five  (5)  percent  increase.  This  provision  does  not  apply  to  the 
implementation  of  a  new  classification  structure  when  the  original  classifications  are  abolished  and 
replaced with a new set of classifications and the employees are converted to the new classifications. 
  
 In-Classification Progression 
  
 9.23  
  

Movement from one skill level to a higher skill level within a classification is referred to as an in-
classification  progression.  When  an  in-classification progression occurs, the appropriate salary rate in the 
applicable  sub-range  shall  be  determined  by  the  President.  The  salary  increase  shall  be  at  least  five  (5) 
percent.  
  
 Classification or Skill Level Review 
  
 9.24  
  

An employee may request a position classification review. Employees in classifications with skill 
levels may request a skill level review related to an in-classification progression. All such requests are to be 
made to the immediate non-bargaining unit supervisor who shall forward the request to the campus Human 
Resources Office in a timely manner.  
  
 9.25  
  

The  classification  and/or  skill  level  review  procedures  shall  be  determined  by  the  President.  A 
copy  of  the  classification  or  skill  level  review  procedures  shall  be  made  available  to  the  employee  upon 
request.  A  set  of  the  Classification  and  Qualification  Standards  shall  be  available  for  reference  on  each 
campus. 
  
 9.26  
  
      The employee shall be notified in writing of the classification and/or skill level review decision and the 
reason(s)  for  the  decision.  If  a  higher  classification  or  skill  level  is granted, normally the employee shall 
receive the appropriate compensation of the higher classification or skill level retroactive to no later than 
the first day of the pay period following the date the request for the classification review was received in 
the campus Human Resources Office.  
  
 Employee Requested Classification and or Skill Level Review 
  
 9.27  
  

An  employee-requested  classification  and/or  skill  level  review  shall  be  completed  no  later  than 
one-hundred eighty (180) days after initiation of the classification and/or skill level review procedure. An 
employee shall not submit such a subsequent request prior to eighteen (18) months after completion of a 
previous classification review. 
  
 Classification and/or Skill Level Review Appeal 
  
 9.28  
  

An  employee  may  appeal  the  decision  of  a  classification  and/or  skill  level  review  no  later  than 
fifteen (15) days after such results have been provided to the employee. Such an appeal shall be filed with 
the  appropriate  administrator  in  the  Human  Resources  Office.  Such  an  appeal  shall  include  a  detailed 
statement by the employee indicating his/her reasons for disagreement with the classification and/or skill 
level review decision. The employee shall provide a copy of such an appeal to the appropriate administrator 
to whom he/she directly reports. 
  
 9.29  
  

A designated individual in the Human Resources Office shall hold a meeting with the employee 
no  later  than  fourteen  (14)  days  after  the  classification  and/or  skill  level  review  appeal  filing.  The 
designated individual should not be the same person who conducted the initial classification and/or skill 
level review. This individual shall respond in writing to the employee no later than twenty-one (21) days 
after the meeting with the employee. Such a response shall be final. If a higher classification or skill level is 

granted, normally the employee shall receive the appropriate       compensation of the higher classification 
or skill level retroactive to no later than the first day of the period following the date the request for the 
classification review was received in the campus Human Resources Office.  
  
 9.30  
  

The parties agree that the procedure set forth in Provisions 9.24  - 9.29 shall be completed within 

nine (9) months. 
  
 9.31  
  

Provisions 9.24 - 9.29 shall not be subject to the grievance procedure, unless the grievant alleges 
the  terms  of  this  policy  have  been  violated,  misinterpreted,  or  misapplied.  The  classification  and/or  skill 
level decision shall not be subject to Article 7, Grievance Procedure. 
  
 Rejection During Probation 
  
 9.32  
  

Any  probationary  employee  may  be  separated  from  service  at  any  time  by  the  President  upon 
written notice of rejection during probation. The employee should normally be given two (2) weeks notice 
of rejection during probation. 
  
 9.33  
  

The notice of rejection shall indicate to an employee his/her right to review his/her personnel file 

and review materials in the file regarding rejection. 
  
 9.34  
  

An  employee  employed  for  more  than  nine  (9)  months  may  utilize the provisions of Article 8, 

Complaint Procedure, including Level III, to appeal the decision to reject during probation. 
  
 9.35  
  

An employee rejected during the probationary period may not utilize the Grievance Procedure of 

this Agreement to appeal the decision to reject during probation. 
  
 Permanent Status 
  
 9.36  
  

An employee who has completed the appropriate probationary period as defined in Provision 9.9 

shall be awarded permanent status at the beginning of his/her second year of service. 
  
 9.37  
  

If an employee with permanent status moves to a different classification and receives permanent 
status  in  the  new  classification,  he/she  shall  not  retain  permanent  status  in  the  classification  from  which 
he/she moved. If an employee with permanent status in a classification receives a temporary appointment in 
another classification and the temporary appointment expires, he/she shall have the right to return to his/her 
prior classification with permanent status in that class.  
  
 9.38  
  

The  President  shall  grant  permanent  status  to  a  temporary  employee  subject  to  the  following 

conditions:  
  

a.  The  temporary  employee  shall  have  served  in  a  Bargaining  Unit  Classification  or  classification 

series for at least four (4) consecutive years immediately prior to the granting of permanency.  

  
      b. Such employee service shall have been in an appointment with a timebase of at least fifty percent 
(50%).  
  

b.  An  employee  who  has  served  four  (4)  or  more  consecutive  years  in  a  position  designated  as 
temporary  under  the prior Agreement shall be granted permanent status in the classification and 
the time base that is held as of the date of the Tentative Agreement.  

c.  An employee who has served for less than four (4) consecutive years in a position designated as 
temporary  under  the  prior  Agreement  shall  be  granted  permanent  status  upon  serving  (4) 
consecutive years in a temporary position. 

d.  A  timebase  shall  not  be  reduced  in  the  appointment  immediately  preceding  the  granting  of 

permanency. 

e.  This  provision  does  not  apply  to  employees  in  positions  which  are  funded  by  non-reoccurring 

grants, contracts or special projects with beginning and ending dates. 

f. 

"Consecutive year," as used in this article, shall be a 365-day period commencing on the date of 
the  appointment  or  anniversary  date  during  which  a  temporary  employee  is  on  a  compensable 
status for 275 days or more. 

  

  

  

 

 

  
 9.39  
  

(50%). 

  
 9.40  
  

The  President  may,  at  his/her  sole  discretion,  grant  permanent  status  to  a  temporary  employee 

subject to the following conditions: 
  

a.  The  temporary  employee shall have served in bargaining unit classifications at the campus for at 

least three (3) consecutive years immediately prior to the granting of permanency. 

b.  Such  employee  service  shall  have  been  in  appointments  with  a  timebase  of  at  least  fifty  percent 

Such  a  permanent  status  shall  include  the  right  to  continue  employment  at  the  timebase 
determined by the President at the time permanency is granted. The President may determine to grant such 
permanency at a timebase of fifty percent (50%) or more. 
  
 Affirmative Action 
  
 9.39  
  

Employees may present campuswide affirmative action issues to the existing Campus Affirmative 
Action Committee or, where there is no such committee, to the Affirmative Action Office. Such issues shall 
be presented in writing to the Campus Affirmative Action Committee or the Affirmative Action Officer. 
 
ARTICLE 10 
EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE 
  
 10.1  

Employees  shall  be  subject  to  periodic  performance  evaluations.  Such  evaluations  should  be  a 
review  of  the  employee's  performance  and  should  be  based  upon  job-related  criteria.  Employee 
performance  evaluations  are  for  the  purpose  of  evaluating  individual  employee  performance  and  for 
providing  guidance  for  performance  development  and  improvement.  Employee  evaluations  shall not be 
negatively affected by layoffs. 
  
 10.2  
  

A written record of a performance evaluation shall be placed in the employee's personnel file. The 
employee  shall  be  provided  with  a  copy  of  the  written  record  of  the  performance  evaluation  prior  to  its 
placement in the personnel file. 
  
 10.3  
  

A permanent employee shall be evaluated at least once each year. 

A probationary employee shall be evaluated at least twice, once before the end of the first quarter 
and once before the end of the third quarter of the probationary period, unless the employee has earlier been 
rejected during probation. 
  
 10.5  
  

A temporary employee shall be evaluated at periodic intervals. 

  

  
 10.4  
  

  
 10.6  
  

Upon  request  of  the  employee  or  the  evaluator,  the  evaluator  and  the  employee  shall  meet  to 

discuss the evaluation. Such a meeting shall take place within seven (7) days of the request. 
  
 10.7  
  

Upon  request  of  the  employee  and  subsequent  to  the  meeting  between  the  employee  and  the 
evaluator, the appropriate administrator, the evaluator, the employee, and the employee's representative, if 
any, shall meet to discuss the evaluation. Such a meeting shall take place within fourteen (14) days of the 
request at a mutually agreeable time and location. 
  
 10.8  
  

If  an  employee  disagrees with the record of a performance evaluation which has been placed in 
his/her personnel file, the employee may submit a rebuttal statement which shall be attached to the record 
of the performance evaluation. 
  
 10.9  
  

The  term  "evaluator"  as  used  in  this Article refers to the appropriate administrator or the person 
designated  by  the  appropriate  administrator  to  conduct  the  performance  evaluation  of  an  employee.  The 
evaluator shall be familiar with the regular duties of the employee. 
  
 10.10  
  

Performance evaluations shall not be subject to Article 7, Grievance Procedure, unless the grievant 

alleges the terms of this Agreement have been violated, misinterpreted, or misapplied. 
 

One  (1)  official  personnel  file  shall  be  maintained  for  each  employee  in  the  campus  Human 
Resources Office. The term "personnel file" as used in this Agreement shall refer to this one (1) official 
personnel file. 
  
 Employee Access 
  
 11.2  
 

The contents of an employee's official personnel file, exclusive of pre-employment materials, shall 
be  open  to  his/her  review  and  review  by  a  Union  Representative  when  authorized  in  writing  by  the 
employee. 
  
 11.3  
  

An  employee  or  his/her  Union  Representative  may  request  an  appointment  for  the  purpose  of 
reviewing  the  employee's  personnel  file.  Such  requested  appointments  shall  be  scheduled  during  normal 
business hours. The manner of access to the official personnel file shall be subject to reasonable conditions. 
  
 11.4  
  

The employee shall within fourteen (14) days of his/her written request be provided an exact copy 
of all or any portion of materials officially maintained in the campus personnel file. The employee shall 
bear  the  cost  of  duplicating  such  materials,  except  as  provided  for  in  Article  7,  Grievance Procedure, 
Article  8,  Complaint  Procedure,  or  when  such  materials  have  bearing  on  disciplinary  action  or  pre-
disciplinary matters. 
  
 11.5  
  

Personnel  recommendations  or  decisions  relating  to  any  personnel  action(s)  shall  be  based 
primarily on material contained in the employee's official personnel file and open to the employee's review. 
If a personnel recommendation or decision is based on any reasons not contained in the employee's official 
personnel  file,  the  appropriate  administrator  making  the recommendation or decision shall commit those 
reasons  to  writing  and  the  written  statement  of  those  reasons  shall  be  placed  in  the  employee's  official 
personnel file. 
  
 11.6  
  

An  employee  shall  not  have  access  to  pre-employment  materials  in  the  personnel file, except in 

instances when such materials are used in personnel actions. 
  
 11.7  

ARTICLE 11 
PERSONNEL FILE 
  
 11.1  
  

  
An employee shall be provided with a copy of material which could lead to an adverse personnel 

action prior to the placement of such material in his/her personnel file. 
  
 11.8  
  

Upon  request  by  an  employee,  attendance  and  payroll  records  maintained  separately  from  the 
personnel  file  may  be  reviewed  by  the  employee  or  a  representative  when  authorized  in  writing  by  the 
employee. Such attendance and payroll records shall be excluded from provisions of Article 11, Personnel 
File.  

  
 Rebuttal 
  
 11.9  
  

placed in the employee's personnel file. 
  
 Request for Correction 
  
 11.10  
  

An employee may submit a rebuttal statement to material in his/her personnel file which shall be 

If,  after  review  of  his/her  records,  an  employee  believes  that  any  portion  of  the  material  is  not 

accurate, the employee may request in writing to the President correction of the record. 
  
 11.11  
  

Within  twenty-one (21) days of an employee's request for correction of the record, the President 

shall notify the employee in writing of his/her decision regarding the request. 

a. 

If  the  President  denies  the  request,  the  President  shall  state  the  reason(s)  fordenial  in 
writing,and this written statement shall be sent to the employee. 

If  the  President  grants  the  request  for  correction  of  the  record,  the  record  shall  be 
corrected.    The  employee  shall  be  sent  a  copy  of  the  corrected  record  and  a  written 
statement  that  the  incorrect  record  in  question  has  been  permanently removed from the 
employee's personnel file. 

 

b. 

 
ARTICLE 12 
CORRECTIVE ACTION 
  
 Reprimands 
  
 12.1  
  

An  employee  may  receive  from  an  appropriate  administrator  an  oral  and/or  written  reprimand.  

Reprimands shall be provided in a timely and confidential manner. 
  
 12.2  
  

Within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the reprimand, an employee may request a conference 
with the appropriate administrator who issued the reprimand to discuss the reprimand. Such a request shall 
not be unreasonably denied. The  employee may be represented at such a conference by another employee 
or a Union Representative.  
  
 12.3  
  

A  written  reprimand  shall  be  placed  in  the  official  personnel  file  of  the  affected  employee  and 
shall  be  subject  to  Article  11,  Personnel  File.  The  employee shall be provided with a copy of a written 
reprimand. An employee may appeal the decision to place a written reprimand in his/her personnel file to 
the President within five (5) days after the conference held pursuant to 12.2 above. The President may hold 
a  meeting  with  the  employee  and  his/her  representative,  if  any.  Within  ten  (10)  days  of  receipt  of  the 
appeal, the President shall provide a written response to the employee. 
  
 Rebuttal to Reprimand 
  
 12.4  

Upon  the  employee's  request  and  three  (3)  years  from  its  effective  date,  a  reprimand  in  the 
personnel  file  shall  be  permanently  removed.  Such  a  request  shall  be  promptly  honored  and  a  statement 
verifying the permanent removal of the reprimand shall be provided to the employee. 

Neither the employee request for such a removal, nor the statement verifying the removal, shall be 
placed in the employee's personnel file. If a notice of disciplinary action has been served on the employee 
and such a reprimand is related to the disciplinary action, this provision shall not be implemented. Nothing 
in this provision shall prohibit earlier removal of the reprimand. 
  
 Temporary Suspension 
  
 12.6  
  

The President may temporarily suspend with pay an employee for reasons related to (a) the safety 
of  persons  or  property,  (b)  the  prevention  of  the  disruption  of  programs  and/or  operation,  or  (c) 
investigation for formal notice of disciplinary action. 
  
 12.7  
  

The President shall notify the employee of the immediate effect of a temporary suspension. 

The President may terminate or extend a temporary suspension and shall so notify the employee. 

  
 12.8  
  

  
 12.9  
  

An employee shall have the right to  attach a rebuttal statement to a written reprimand in his/her 

  

official personnel file. 
  
 Removal of Reprimand from Personnel File 
  
 12.5  
  

Unless  earlier  terminated  by  the  President,  a  temporary  suspension  including  any  extension  of  a 
temporary suspension shall automatically terminate upon the service of formal notice of disciplinary action 
or thirty (30) days after its commencement, whichever first occurs. 
  
 12.10  
  

Temporary  suspension  and  corrective  action  shall  not  be  subject  to  Article  7,  Grievance 
Procedure, unless the grievant alleges the terms of this Agreement have been violated, misinterpreted, or 
misapplied. 
  
 Investigatory Interviews 
  
 12.11  
  

Upon  his/her  request,  an  employee  may  be  represented  at  an  investigatory  interview  if  he/she 
reasonably believes that disciplinary action may result. Prior to the interview, the employee is entitled to be 
informed of the general nature of the matter being investigated and to consult with his/her representative, if 
any.  The  right  to  representation  does  not  apply  to  meetings  held  exclusively  to  inform  an  employee  of  a 
previously  made  disciplinary  decision.  If  the  representative  an  employee  requests  is  unavailable,  the 
employee may request alternate representation. The Employer is not obliged to postpone the interview, nor 
to suggest or secure the alternate representation; however, the employee shall not be required to answer any 

questions without a representative present, unless he/she voluntarily chooses to do so. At its discretion, the 
Employer may decline to hold any interview if the employee requests representation. 
 
ARTICLE 13 
UNAUTHORIZED LEAVES OF ABSENCES 
  
 Automatic Resignation 
  
 13.1  
  
      An employee who is absent for five (5) consecutive workdays without securing authorized leave from 
the President shall be considered to have automatically resigned from CSU employment as of the last day 
worked.  All  unauthorized  absences,  whether  voluntary  or  involuntary,  shall  apply  to  the  five  (5) 
consecutive workday limitation. The five (5) day period referred to above shall commence at the beginning 
of the first shift of such absence and shall be deemed to have been completed at the end of the employee's 
scheduled work hours on the fifth (5th) consecutive day of unauthorized absence. 
  
 13.2  
  

The  President  shall  notify  the  employee  that  the  University  will  be  separating  him/her  by 
automatic resignation under this  Article unless the employee requests an administrative review regarding 
his/her absence within seven (7) calendar days following such notification. No automatic resignation shall 
be final until the seven (7) day period has passed and either a decision is made by the reviewing officer or 
the  employee  has  failed  to  request  a  review.  Notification  may  be  in  person  or  by  certified  mail  to  the 
employee's last known address. 
  
 13.3  
  

If  the  employee  responds  to  the  notification  from  the  President  by  requesting  an administrative 
review  within  seven  (7)  calendar  days  of  such  notification,  the  employee  will  be  provided  with  the 
opportunity  to  respond,  either  orally  or  in  writing,  to  a  campus  reviewing  officer  designated  by  the 
President.  Either  party  may  present  evidence  at  any  review  meeting.  The  reviewing  officer's  decision, 
which shall be rendered within fourteen (14) days of the administrative review, shall state: 
  

a.  whether the employee was absent for five (5) consecutive workdays; 

b.  whether the employee had proper authorized leave to be absent; 

c.  an evaluation of whether the employee has presented sufficient excuse to warrant continuation of 
employment,  supported  by  facts  which  provide  justification  of  the  absence  or  continuation  of 
employment. If an action other than automatic resignation is proposed, it shall be stated along with 
reasons for its use; and 

 

 

 

  
 13.4  
  

d.  whether the employee should be separated by automatic resignation. 

Any employee who is reinstated by the President under this provision shall not be paid salary for 
the period of unauthorized absence unless it is determined that such absence may be appropriately charged 
to accrued leave. The employee shall adhere to all other reinstatement requirements set forth in writing by 
the President. 
  
 13.5  
  

This Article shall not supersede Section 89541 of the California Education Code. Provisions 13.1 

through 13.4 shall not limit an employee's right to a State Personnel Board appeal. 

  
 Resignation 
  
 13.6  
  

resignation. 
  
 13.7  
  

An employee who resigns from his/her position shall be terminated as of the effective date of the 

No later than thirty (30) days after a termination pursuant to Provision 13.6 above, the employee 
or former employee may request to rescind his/her resignation. Such requests shall be  made in writing to 
the President. 
  

The President shall respond to such requests indicating denial, acceptance, or qualified acceptance 
within fourteen (14) days. The President's response shall be final unless it is reversed by the State Personnel 
Board pursuant to Provision 13.8 below and shall not be subject to Article 7, Grievance Procedure. 
  
 13.8  
  

Provisions 13.6 and 13.7 (Resignation) of this Article shall not supersede Section 89542 of the 
California Education Code. Provisions 13.6 and 13.7 shall not limit an employee's right to a State Personnel 
Board appeal. 
   
ARTICLE 14 
VACATIONS AND HOLIDAYS 
  
 Vacations 
  
 14.1  
  

Employees are eligible for paid vacation in accordance with the schedule in Provision 14.2 below. 

  
 Vacation Accrual 
  
 14.2  
  

Service  requirements  below  are  in  terms  of  full-time service. Service requirements shall be pro 

rata for employees who work less than full-time. 
  

          

  
 14.3  
  

  

eligible for paid vacation. 
  
 Vacation Credits 
  
 14.4  
  

vacation accrual. 
  
 14.6  
  

Employees  serving  in  an  academic  year  appointment  do  not  accrue  vacation  credits  and  are  not 

              

For purposes of computing vacation credit, an employee who works eleven (11) or more days in a 
monthly  pay  period  is  considered  to have completed a month, a month of service, or continuous service. 
When  an  absence  without  pay  of  more  than  eleven  (11)  consecutive  working  days  falls  into  two  (2) 
consecutive qualifying monthly pay periods, one (1) of the pay periods is disqualified. 
  
 14.5  
  

An  authorized  leave  of  absence  without  pay  shall  not  be  considered  service  for  the  purpose  of 

Vacation  credits  are  cumulative  to  a  maximum  of  two  hundred  and  seventy-two (272) working 
hours for ten (10) or less years of qualifying service or three hundred and eighty-four (384) working hours 
for more than ten (10) years of such service. Accumulation in excess of this amount as of January 1 of each 
year shall be forfeited by the employee. An employee shall be permitted to carryover more than allowable 
credits  when  the  employee  was  prevented  from  taking  enough  vacation  to  reduce  the  credits  because  the 
employee (1) was required to work as a result of fire, flood, or other extreme emergency; (2) was assigned 
work  of  priority  or  critical  nature  over  an  extended  period  of  time;  (3)  was  absent  on  full  salary  for 
compensable  injury;  or  (4)  was  prevented  from  using  vacation  previously  scheduled  to  be  taken  in 
December because of being on paid sick leave. 
  
 14.7  
  

A probationary employee shall not take vacation until completion of one (1) month in work status. 

 Vacation Requests 
  
 14.8  
  

Requests for scheduling vacation shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate administrator at 
least thirty (30) days in advance. When authorized to do so by the appropriate administrator, an employee 
may take vacation without submitting such a request. If an employee submits a vacation request for five (5) 
days  or  less  with  less  than  thirty  (30)  days  notice,  such  request  will  be  approved  subject to operational 
needs. The appropriate administrator shall respond in writing to an employee's vacation request as soon as 
possible.  Once  approved  in  writing,  vacations  shall  not  be  rescinded  without  the  mutual  consent  of  the 
employee and the appropriate administrator, except in cases of emergency as determined by the appropriate 
administrator. 
  

Based  upon  the  operational  needs  of  the  campus,  vacation  schedules  shall  be  determined  by  the 
appropriate  administrator.  Vacations  shall  be  scheduled  and  taken  only  as  authorized  by  the  appropriate 
administrator. If a conflict in vacation requests arises, the appropriate administrator shall give consideration 
to the employee(s) with the most seniority, provided that operational needs are met. 
  
 Lump Sum Payment 
  
 14.9  
  

Upon separation from service without fault on his/her part, an employee is entitled to a lump sum 
payment as of the time of separation for any unused or accumulated vacation. Such sum shall be computed 
by projecting the accumulated time on a  calendar basis so that the lump sum will equal the amount which 
the employee would have been paid had he/she taken the time off, but not separated from service. 
  
 Holidays 
  
 14.10  
  

The following paid holidays, except as provided in Provision 14.11 below, shall be observed on 

the day specified: 
  

July 4 

January 1 

a. 
b.  Third Monday in January (Martin Luther King Jr. Day) 
c. 
d.  First Monday in September (Labor Day) 
e.  Thanksgiving Day 
f.  December 25 
g.  Any other day designated by the Governor for a public fast or holiday. 

  
 14.11  
  

  
 14.12  
  

The paid holidays listed in this provision shall be observed on the day specified unless they fall on 

a Saturday or Sunday, or are rescheduled for observance on another day by the President. 
  

a.  Third Monday in February (Washington's Birthday) 
b.  February 12 (Lincoln's Birthday) 
c.  Last Monday in May (Memorial Day) 
d.  Admission Day 
e.  Second Monday in October (Columbus Day) 
f.  November 11 (Veteran's Day) 

Any  holiday  listed  in  this  Article  which  falls  on  a  Saturday  shall  be  observed  on  the  preceding 

Friday. Any holiday in this Article which falls on a Sunday shall be observed the following Monday. 
  
 14.13  
  

An  employee  on  the  payroll  on  the  day  a  holiday  is  officially  observed  shall  be  entitled  to  the 
holiday.  The  number  of  hours  of  the  holiday  shall  be determined by the hours the employee is normally 
scheduled to work on the day the holiday is observed.  
  

If an employee is on a compressed work schedule and the holiday is observed on a non-workday, 
the employee shall be entitled to the number of holiday hours equal to their normal workday. This holiday 
must be used within thirty (30) days after the holiday was observed. An employee on a leave of absence 
without pay or in other non-pay status on a day a holiday is officially observed shall not be entitled to the 
holiday.  
  
 14.14  
  

If  a  holiday  falls  on  a  scheduled  workday  during  an  employee's  vacation  or  within  a  period  of 

absence chargeable to sick leave, the holiday will not be charged to sick leave or vacation time.  
  
 14.15  
  

A  campus  yearly  calendar shall be provided to the employees at least thirty (30) days before its 

effective date. 
  
 14.16  
  

An  employee  shall  be  permitted  to  use  accrued  vacation  or  his/her  Personal  Holiday  if  the 
President  closes  the  campus  and  there  is  an  insufficient  number  of  holidays  scheduled  to  be  observed 
during the closure. Employees eligible for CTO may use accrued CTO during periods of campus closure. 
  
 14.17  
  

Should  an  employee  not  have  vacation  accrued,  sufficient  CTO  balance  or  Personal  Holiday  to 
cover the scheduled days of closure, he/she shall be provided sufficient work prior to the scheduled closure 
to prevent any loss of pay or benefits. Such time worked shall be in accordance with Article 19, Overtime. 
  
 14.18  
  

Employees  who  are  in  an  academic  year  appointment  are  entitled  to  all  days  designated  in  the 
campus academic calendar as academic holidays, or any other day designated by the Governor for a public 
fast or holiday. If the timebase is less than full-time, this provision will be applied on a pro rata basis. 
  
 Personal Holiday 
  
 14.19  
  

An employee is entitled to one (1) Personal Holiday which must be taken on one (1) day during 
the calendar year. If the employee fails to take the Personal Holiday before the end of the year, the holiday 
shall  be  forfeited.  The  scheduling  of  the  holiday  shall  be  by  mutual  agreement  of  the  employee  and  the 
appropriate administrator. 
  
 Holiday Work Compensation 
  
 14.20  
  

A full-time employee who works on the day a holiday is officially observed shall be compensated 
at his/her overtime rate on an hour-for-hour basis for all hours worked on the holiday. Such compensation 
shall be in cash or CTO, as determined by the President. This provision shall apply pro rata to less than 
full-time  employees.  Employees  not  eligible for overtime as listed in Appendix C shall receive time off 
earned at the straight time rate. 
  
 14.21  
  

When a holiday is observed pursuant to Provision 14.11 and an employee is not scheduled to work 
on the day the holiday is observed, but is required to work on the calendar date of such a holiday, he/she 
shall only receive holiday work compensation for time worked on the calendar date of the holiday. Such 
compensation shall be provided pursuant to Provision 14.20, Holiday Work Compensation, of this Article. 

 ARTICLE 15 
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY  
  
 Sick Leave 
  
 15.1  
  

Following completion of one (1) month of continuous service, a full-time employee shall accrue 
eight (8) hours of credit for sick leave with pay. Thereafter, for each additional month of service, eight (8) 
hours of credit for sick leave with pay shall be accrued. 
  
 15.2  
  

Each  full-time employee shall be considered to work not more than forty (40) hours each week. 
Employees  who  are  appointed  less  than  full-time shall accrue credit for  sick leave with pay on a pro rata 
basis. 
  
 15.3  
  

Sick leave may be accumulated without limits, and no additional sick leave with pay beyond that 

accumulated shall be granted except as provided for in Provision 15.7. 
  
 15.4  
  

as possible in compliance with department and campus policies. 
  
 15.5  
  

An employee shall be responsible for reporting an absence to the appropriate administrator as soon 

An  employee  shall  be  responsible  for  completing  and  signing  the  campus  absence  form  and 

returning the absence form to the appropriate administrator upon reporting to work. 
  
 15.6  
  

An employee may be required to provide a physician's statement or other appropriate verification 
for  absences  after  three  (3)  consecutive  days  charged  to  sick  leave.  An  employee  shall not normally be 
required  to  provide  such  a  statement  or  verification  for  an  absence  of  three  (3)  consecutive  days  or  less 
charged to sick leave. 
  
 Catastrophic Leave Donation Program 
  
 15.7  
  

Any  CSU  employee  who  accrues  vacation  or  sick  leave  credits may voluntarily donate either of 
those credits to any other CSU employee on the same campus, if the recipient employee has exhausted all 
accrued  leave  credits,  i.e.,  sick  leave,  vacation  and  CTO,  due  to  a  catastrophic  illness  or  injury. 
Catastrophic illness or injury is an illness or injury that has totally incapacitated the employee from work. 
  
      The following provisions shall apply: 
  

a.  An employee, his/her representative or the employee's family member must request the employee's 
participation and provide appropriate verification of illness or injury as determined by the campus 
President. The President shall then determine the employee's eligibility to receive donations based 
upon the definition provided above. 

 

 

 

  

  

  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

  
 Absences Chargeable to Sick Leave 
  
 15.8  
  

is absent because of: 
  

The use of sick leave may be authorized by the  appropriate administrator only when an employee 

b.  An incapacitated employee may elect to  defer a request to participate during a period of Industrial 

Disability Leave eligibility. 

c.  Employees  may  donate  a  maximum  of  thirty-two  (32)  hours  leave  credits  per  fiscal  year  in 

increments of one hour or more. Donations are irrevocable. 

d.  Donated  leave  credits  may  be  used  to  supplement  Industrial  Disability  Leave,  Non-Industrial 
Disability Leave or Temporary Disability payments from the State Compensation Insurance Fund 
upon  application  for  these  benefit(s)  by  an  eligible  employee.  The  total  amount  of  leave credits 
donated  and  used  may  not  exceed  an  amount  sufficient  to  ensure  the  continuance  of  the 
employee's regular monthly rate of compensation. 

e.  The  total  donated  leave  credits  shall  normally  not  exceed  an  amount  necessary  to  continue  the 
employee  for  three  (3)  calendar  months  calculated  from  the  first  day  of  catastrophic  leave.  The 
President  may  approve  an  additional  three-month  period  in  exceptional  cases.  The  leave  should 
not be deemed donated until actually transferred by the campus record keeper to the record of the 
employee receiving leave credits. 

f.  For employees whose appointments have not been renewed, donated time may not be used beyond 

the employee's appointment expiration date in effect at the beginning of the disability. 

g.  Only vacation and sick leave credits may be donated. 

h.  Donated leave credits may not be used to receive service credit following a service or disability 

retirement. 

i.  Any CSU union may solicit leave donations from bargaining unit employees for direct transfer to 

employees eligible to receive such leave credits. 

j.  Catastrophic  illness  or  injury  may  also  include  an  incapacitated  member  of  the  employee's 
immediate family if this results in the employee being required to take time off for an extended 
period of time in order to care  for the family member and the employee has exhausted both all of 
his/her accrued vacation credits and all of his/her accrued sick leave credits which may be used for 
family  care  in  accordance  with  the  appropriate  collective  bargaining  agreement.  Only  donated 
vacation credits may be used for such family care catastrophic leave. Immediate family member 
shall  be  defined  in  accordance  with  the  definition  contained  in  the  sick  leave  provisions  of  the 
collective bargaining agreement covering the recipient employee. 

k.  The  provisions  of  this  program  shall  be  subject  to  the  grievance  procedure  contained  in  the 

collective bargaining agreement covering the grieving employee. 

a. 

illnesses, injury, or disability related to pregnancy; 

b.  exposure to contagious disease; 

c.  dental, eye, other physical or medical examinations or treatments by a licensed practitioner; 

d. 

illness or injury in the immediate family and sick leave for family care is primarily for emergency 
situations. Up to five (5) days of accrued sick leave credit may be used for family care during any 

one (1) calendar year. The appropriate administrator may authorize an additional five (5) days of 
accrued sick leave credit for family care during one (1) calendar year. 
 

e.  An  employee  may  request  the  use  of  accrued  sick  leave  credit  for  family  care  beyond  the 
maximum set forth above. Such requests must be accompanied by a physician's statement or other 
appropriate need verification. The granting or denial of such additional use of sick leave shall be 
the prerogative of the appropriate administrator and shall not be subject to Article 7, Grievance 
Procedure, or Article 8, Complaint Procedure, of this Agreement. 

f.  death of a person in the immediate family. 

 

  

The President may authorize up to forty (40) hours of accrued sick leave for bereavement. When 
one (1) or other deaths occur in a calendar year, up to forty (40) hours of accrued sick leave credits may be 
authorized for each death. 
  
 15.9  
  

"Immediate family" as used in this Article shall mean close relative or other person residing in the 

immediate household of the employee, except domestic employees, roomers or roommates. 
  
 15.10  
  

The  President  may  direct  an  employee  to  take  sick  leave  if  he/she  determines  that  the  employee 

has restricted ability to carry out his/her duties due to illness. 
  
 15.11  
  

An  employee  may  be  required  to  undergo  a  medical  examination as directed by the President to 
ascertain  the  employee's  ability  to  perform  his/her  required  duties.  If  such  an  examination  is  by  the 
physician selected by the employer, the CSU shall bear the costs of such medical examination. 
  
 15.12  
  

Under no circumstances may an employee be granted sick leave for days during layoff periods or 
during a leave of absence without pay. An employee may not be granted sick leave during periods when the 
campus or department is closed unless the employee was on sick leave prior to the time of the campus or 
department closure. 
  
 15.13  
  

A  female  employee  on  maternity  leave  pursuant  to  Article  16,  Leaves  of  Absence  Without  Pay, 
shall be entitled to use earned sick leave for the period of time covering date of childbirth and immediate 
physical  recovery  therefrom.  Earned  sick  leave  shall  be  charged  for  workdays  in  such  a  period  of  time. 
Normally,  fifteen  (15)  days  of  earned  sick  leave  may  be  charged.  A  physician's  verification  of  disability 
shall be required for the use of earned sick leave in excess of fifteen (15) days, pursuant to this provision. 
  
 15.14  
  

The President may authorize unpaid sick leave, the use of vacation or the use of CTO pursuant to 

Article 19, Overtime, for an employee who has exhausted accumulated sick leave. 
  
 Funeral Leave 
  
 15.15  
  

For  each  death  of  a  significantly  close  relative  or  an  immediate  family  member  as  defined  in 
Provision 15.9, upon request to the President, the employee shall be granted two (2) day's leave with pay. If 
such a death of a significantly close relative requires the employee to travel over five hundred (500) round-
trip miles from his/her home, upon request such a leave with pay shall be granted for three (3) days. 
  
 15.16  
  

A  leave  granted  in  accordance  with  Provision  15.14  may  be  supplemented  in  accordance  with 

bereavement provisions of this Article. 
  
 15.17  
  

The  term  "significantly  close  relative"  as  used  in  this  Article  shall  mean  a  spouse  and  the 
employee's  or  his/her  spouse's  mother,  father,  grandmother,  grandfather,  grandchild,  son,  son-in-law, 
daughter, daughter-in-law, brother, sister, or relative living in the immediate household of the employee. 
  
 Jury Duty 
  
 15.18  
  

An employee who serves on jury duty shall receive his/her salary only if he/she remits the amount 
received for such duty to the CSU. Payment for travel expenses and subsistence received by the employee 
need not be remitted. If the employee elects to retain the jury duty fees, his/her time off for jury duty is not 
compensable. The employee may elect to use vacation, personal holiday or CTO to cover the time off. 
  
 15.19  
  

An  hourly  employee  shall  be  eligible  for  time  off  with  pay  for  jury  duty  only  for  those  hours 

An  employee  who  receives  initial  notification that he/she is subject to jury duty shall notify the 

The employee is required to notify the appropriate administrator in writing prior to taking leave 
for jury duty. Verification of actual service for jury duty shall be provided by the employee when requested 
by the appropriate administrator. 
  
 15.22  
  

Upon  request,  an  employee  on  swing  or  graveyard  shift  who  serves  on  jury  duty  shall  be 

he/she was scheduled to work. 
  
 15.20  
  

appropriate administrator. 
  
 15.21  
  

reassigned to the day shift. 
  
 Leave to Vote 
  
 15.23  

  
An  employee  who  would otherwise be unable to vote outside of his/her regular working hours 
may be granted up to two (2) hours of work time without loss of pay to vote at a general, direct primary, or 
presidential  primary  election.  An  employee  shall  be  required  to  request  such  leave  time  from  the 
appropriate administrator at least two (2) working days prior to the election. 
  
 Absence as a Witness 

  
 15.24  
  

Employees  serving  as  court-subpoenaed witnesses or expert witnesses in the interest of the CSU 
shall  seek  the  payment  of  witness  fees.  Whenever  possible,  employees  shall  confer  with  the  attorney 
requesting  their  appearance  to  determine  whether  certified  copies  of  appropriate  documents  would  be 
suitable and would eliminate the need for a court appearance. 
  
 15.25  
  

An employee who is absent as a court-subpoenaed witness or expert witness in the interest of the 
CSU shall be paid the normal salary for the corresponding period of absence. No portion of the employee's 
salary shall be forfeited as the result of such an appearance; however, all court fees (except personal travel 
and/or subsistence payments) shall be remitted to the CSU. If an exceptional circumstance occurs whereby 
the employee does not remit such fees, an amount equal to the fees shall be deducted from the employee's 
salary. No vacation or compensatory time off (CTO) shall be used in such cases. 
  
 15.26  
  

An employee who receives court fees in excess of regular earnings may keep the excess and need 
remit only an amount equal to the compensation paid the employee while on leave. If the employee chooses 
to retain the entire fee, then the time taken off shall be charged as vacation or CTO, and if no vacation time 
or CTO is available, the employee shall be docked for the period of absence. 
  
 15.27  
  

An employee  (including hourly employees) serving as a court-subpoenaed witness on a holiday or 

while on vacation or on compensatory time off (CTO) shall serve on his/her own time. 
  
 15.28  
  

An employee who is a party to a suit or who is an expert witness not serving in the interest of the 
CSU shall appear on his/her own time. The employee shall be charged vacation or CTO, and if no vacation 
time or CTO is available, the employee shall be docked for the period of absence. 
  
 15.29  
  

An employee who is required to appear in court on behalf of the CSU at times outside of and not 
continuous with an employee's regular work schedule shall be compensated pursuant to the call-back pay 
requirements of Provisions 19.17 and 19.18 of this Agreement only if he/she is required to appear in court 
as a result of the exercise of his/her duties during working hours. 

Call-back pay under this provision shall not be provided to employees who are parties to a suit, 
who serve as court-subpoenaed witnesses, or who serve as expert witnesses unless they do so on behalf of 
the CSU and as a result of the exercise of their duties during working hours. 
  
 Military Leave 
  
 15.30  
  

Emergency military leave, temporary military leave, and indefinite military leave shall be granted 

to eligible employees in accordance with state and federal law. 
  
 Supplement to Industrial Disability Leave (IDL) 
  
 15.31  
  

Upon  written  notification  to  the  CSU  by  an  eligible  employee,  he/she  may  elect  to  supplement 
IDL  payments  with  charges  to  his/her  accrued  sick  leave.  Such  an  election  shall  be  made  no  later  than 
fifteen (15) days after the report of the injury for which the IDL is being paid. 
  
 15.32  
  

Such  supplement  shall  continue  until  the  employee  has  exhausted  his/her  accrued  sick  leave  or 
until  the  employee  provides to the CSU written notification he/she wishes to discontinue the supplement. 
Such a notice shall be provided fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of such a discontinuation. 
  
 15.33  
  

Such  a  supplement  to  IDL  payments  shall  not  result  in  the  employee  receiving  a  payment  in 

All payments received by an employee while on IDL shall be subject to mandatory and authorized 

excess of his/her regular salary or wage. 
  
 15.34  
  

voluntary deductions. 
  
 Maternity/Paternity/Adoption Leave 
  
 15.35  
  

"Maternity/paternity/adoption leave" shall refer to a leave for the purpose of a parent preparing for 

the arrival of a new infant and the care of a new infant. 
  

to 

to 

and 

sick 

leave 

available 

An employee shall be entitled to up to twenty (20) workdays "maternity/ paternity/adoption leave" 
(as defined above, and subject to the requirements of Provision 16.12), with pay. Such leave shall be in 
addition 
available  vacation  under  Article  14.  Paid 
maternity/paternity/adoption leave runs concurrently with any other related leaves for which the employee 
is eligible. 
 
ARTICLE 16 
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY 
  
 16.1  
  

A  full-time  employee  or  part-time permanent employee may be granted a full or partial leave of 

absence without pay for up to one (1) year for the following purposes/reasons: 
  

loan of an employee to another governmental agency; 
family leave; 

a. 
b. 
c.  outside employment that would lessen the impact of a potential layoff or a layoff; 
d. 
e.  other satisfactory reasons. 

temporary incapacity due to illness or injury; 

  

Leaves  without  pay  granted  for  d.  above  shall  also  be  subject  to  Article  15,  Leaves  of  Absence 
With Pay. Periods of disability related to pregnancy are subject to the provisions of Article 15, Leaves of 
Absence With Pay. 
  
 16.2  
  

A  written  application  for  a leave of absence without pay or an extension of a leave of absence 
without  pay  shall  be  submitted  to  the  President.  The  President  shall  determine  if  such  a  leave  shall  be 
granted and the conditions of such a leave, and shall respond to the application within forty-five (45) days. 

  
 16.3  
  

  
 16.5  
  

An employee who is on a leave of absence without pay shall not return to active pay status prior to 

the expiration of such a leave without written approval of the President. 
  
 16.4  
  

Service credit shall not be granted to an employee on a leave of absence without pay. 

A leave so granted assures to the employee a right to return to his/her former position or a position 
within his/her classification upon expiration of the leave and the time lost shall not constitute a break in 
service. 
  
 16.6  
  

When  requested  by  the  President,  an  employee  granted  a  leave  of  absence  without  pay  shall 

provide verification that the conditions of the leave were met. 
  
 16.7  
  

An employee on a leave of absence without pay for more than thirty (30) days may opt to continue 
his/her fringe benefits at his/her own expense. Upon written request of an eligible employee as defined in 
Article  21,  Benefits,  the  CSU  shall  provide  a  system  for  the  continued  payment  of  his/her  insurance 
premiums  including  health,  dental  and  vision  benefits  during  the  period  of  an  unpaid  leave  of  absence. 
During this period, such an employee shall pay both the employee's and the CSU's contributions. The CSU 
shall  not  advance  such  payments.  Such  an  employee  shall  pay  all  contributions  prior  to  the  date  each 
payment is due. Failure to pay such premiums will result in coverages lapsing unless the employee makes 
other arrangements. 
  
 16.8  
  

The granting or denial of leaves of absence without pay pursuant to Provisions 16.1 through 16.7 

shall not be subject to Article 7, Grievance Procedure. 
  
 Family Care and Medical Leave 
  
 16.9  
  

medical leave without pay. 
  
 16.10  
  

An  employee  who  has  at  least  twelve  (12)  months  of  service  is  entitled  to  a  family  care  and 

Eligible employees may take up to a total of twelve (12) weeks of family care and medical leave in 

a 12-month period, including any periods of absence with pay for family care and medical leave purposes. 
  
 16.11  
  
       
An  employee  may  be  granted  family  care  and  medical  leave  for  the  birth  of  a  child  of  the 
employee, the placement of a child with an employee in connection with the adoption or foster care of the 
child  by  the  employee,  to  care  for  a  child,  parent  or  spouse  of  the  employee  who  has  a  serious  health 
condition, or for the employee's own serious health condition. 
  

 16.12  

The period of family care and medical leave granted to an employee for the birth of a child shall 

  
       
For family care and medical leave taken for reason of the birth of a child or adoption/foster care of 
a  child  by  an  employee,  any  leave  taken  shall  be  initiated  within  one (1) year of the birth of a child or 
placement of a child with the employee in the case of adoption/foster care. 
  
       
run concurrently with the period of leave available to an employee under Education Code Section 89519. 
  
 16.13  
  
       
The  amount  of  family  care  and  medical  leave  that  may  otherwise  be  granted  under  this  Article 
may  be  reduced  by  the  amount  of  family  care  and  medical  leave  granted  to  an employee for reasons set 
forth under Provisions 16.9 through 16.22. 
  
 16.14  
  
       
Before granting a family care and medical leave for the serious health condition of a child, parent 
or  spouse,  the  President  may  require  certification  of  the  serious  health  condition  from  the  health  care 
provider. 
  
 16.15  
  
       
Upon  expiration  of  the  period  which  the  health  care  provider  originally  estimated  that  the 
employee needed to care for the child, parent or spouse, the President may require the employee to obtain 
recertification if additional leave is requested. 
  
 16.16  
  
       
Family care and medical leave shall be leave without pay except that an employee must utilize all 
accrued personal holidays, vacation and CTO that he/she is otherwise eligible to take during the otherwise 
unpaid period of the family leave. 
  
 16.17  
  
An employee may use accrued sick leave during the period of family care and medical leave upon 
       
mutual  agreement  between  the  employee  and  the  appropriate  administrator.  Such  requests for sick leave 
shall be made in accordance with Article 15 of this Agreement. 
  
 16.18  
  

Family care and medical leave is separate and distinct from the right of a female employee to take 
a  pregnancy  disability  leave  under  Government  Code  Section  12945,  subdivision  (b)(2).  If  a  female 
employee takes part or all of the maximum four (4) months of pregnancy disability leave, she may request 
up to twelve (12) weeks additional family care and medical leave for reason of the birth of her child, or due 
to  her own serious medical condition. Family care and medical leave and pregnancy disability leave shall 
run concurrently with the period of leave available under the provisions of Education Code Section 89519. 
Family  care  and  medical  leave  shall  not  run  concurrently  with  pregnancy  disability  leave  under 
Government Code Section 12945. 
  
 16.19  
  

An  employee  shall  provide  the  President  with  written  notice  of  the  need  for  family  care  and 
medical leave as soon as the event necessitating the leave becomes known to  the employee. In general, as 
much advance notice as is reasonably possible shall be provided and normally shall not be less than five (5) 
working days of the event giving rise to the need for leave. 

  
 16.20  
  
       
If the employee's need for family care and medical leave is foreseeable due to the planned medical 
treatment or planned supervision of a child, parent or spouse with a serious health condition, the employee 
shall  provide  the  President  with  not  less  than  fourteen  (14)  days  notice  of  the  need  for  the  leave.  The 
employee  shall  consult  with  the  appropriate  administrator  regarding  the  scheduling  of  the  treatment  or 
supervision so as to minimize disruption of the operations of the campus. 
  
 16.21  
  
       
A  family  care  and  medical  leave  so  granted  assures to the employee a right to return to his/her 
former  position  or  an  equivalent  position  upon  expiration  of  the  family  care  and  medical  leave.  If  the 
former position and any equivalent position has ceased to exist due to legitimate business reasons unrelated 
to  the  leave,  the  campus  shall  make  reasonable  accommodation  by  alternative  means  that  will  not  cause 
undue  hardship  to  the  campus.  Such  alternative  means  shall  include,  but  not  be  limited  to,  offering  the 
employee  any  other  position  which  is  available and for which the employee is qualified. The family care 
and  medical  leave  shall  not  constitute  a  break  in  service  for  the  purposes  of  length  of  service  and/or 
seniority under this Agreement. 
  
 16.22  
  
An employee on family care and medical  leave shall retain employee status and shall continue to 
       
accrue seniority points pursuant to Article 24 of this Agreement during the period of the family care and 
medical leave. During a family care and medical leave, an employee may continue to participate in benefits 
to the same extent and under the same conditions as would apply to any other personal leave of absence 
without pay pursuant to this Agreement, except that if any paid portion of the family care and medical leave 
is less than twelve (12) weeks, unless canceled by the employee, the CSU shall continue to make employer 
contributions toward health, dental and vision coverage for the unpaid remainder of the twelve (12) week 
period. If an employee fails to return at the end of the family care or medical leave, the CSU may require 
repayment of insurance premiums paid during the unpaid portion of the leave. The CSU shall not require 
repayment of premiums if the employee's failure to return is due to his/her serious health condition or due 
to circumstances beyond the employee's control. 
  
 16.23  
  

The leave of absence of a temporary employee eligible for such leave pursuant to this Article shall 

terminate upon the expiration of that employee's temporary appointment. 
  
 16.24  
  

The granting or denial of leaves of absence without pay pursuant to Provisions 16.9 through 16.23 

shall be subject to Article 8, Complaint Procedure. 

  

ARTICLE 17 
ASSIGNMENT/REASSIGNMENT 
  
 17.1  
  

An employee shall be provided with written notice of permanent reassignment to another position 
seven (7) days prior to the effective date of such a reassignment. If more than one (1) employee requests an 
opportunity for reassignment to the same position, the appropriate administrator shall give consideration to 
seniority, provided that operational needs are met. 
  
 17.2  
  

The  President  may  temporarily  assign  an  employee  to  a  position  in  a  higher  classification  or 
temporarily reclassify an employee for the performance of duties in a higher classification. The President 
may  temporarily  effect  an  in-class progression for the performance of duties at a higher skill level in the 
same or a different position. Such a temporary assignment or temporary in-class progression may be for up 
to six (6) months, and shall be consistent with this Article  and/or Article 22, Professional Development. 
Such an assignment may be extended beyond six (6) months, but for not longer than another twelve (12) 
months,  by  mutual  agreement  of  the  President  and  the  employee.  An  employee  shall  be  provided  with 
written  notice  of  such  a  temporary  assignment  of  duties  of  another  classification  or  temporary  in-class 
progression at least seven (7) days prior to the effective date.  
  
 17.3  
  

An  employee  shall  begin  to  receive  the  appropriate  compensation  of  the  higher  classification or 

An  employee  may  request,  in  writing,  a  meeting  with  the  appropriate  administrator  to  discuss  a 

position description, reassignment, or work assignment. Such a meeting shall not be unreasonably denied. 
  
 17.9  
  

skill level from the effective date of such a temporary assignment or temporary in-class progression.  
  
 17.4  
  

An employee serving in a temporary assignment of duties of another classification or temporary 
in-class  progression  shall  be  provided  with  a  letter  of  verification  of  such  service.  A  copy  of  such  a 
verification letter shall be placed in the personnel file of the employee. 
  
 17.5  
  

At the end of the temporary assignment of duties of another classification or temporary in-class 
progression, the employee shall be returned to his/her permanent assignment with the same status as he/she 
would  have  had  if  he/she  had  not  been  granted  such  a  temporary  assignment  or  temporary  in-class 
progression. 
  
 Assignment 
  
 17.6  
  

An  employee  shall  be  informed  as  to  the  administrator  to  whom  he/she  shall  be  normally 
accountable.  An  employee  may  seek  clarification  of  working  instructions  from  such  an  appropriate 
administrator. Such clarification shall be provided in writing. 
  
 17.7  
  

The  appropriate  administrator shall provide an employee with a copy of the employee's position 
description within one week of the employee's initial hire. After initial hire, upon the employee's request, 
the appropriate administrator shall provide the employee with a copy of the employee's position description 
if a current one is available. If a current one is not available, then the employee shall be provided with a 
copy  of  his/her  position  description  within  forty-five (45) days of his/her request. A copy of the position 
description signed by the employee shall be placed in the employee's official personnel file. 
  

If a position description is to be altered, the employee shall be provided with a copy of the altered 
position description at least seven (7) days prior to its effective date. Position descriptions shall reflect the 
employee's assigned duties and responsibilities. 
  
 17.8  
  

Appropriate  administrators  may  perform  duties  within  the  classification  and  qualification 

standards that are applicable to bargaining unit employees. 
  
 17.10  
  

are applicable to bargaining unit employees. 
  
 17.11  

Student assistants may be assigned duties within the classification and qualification standards that 

  
The CSU agrees to immediately meet and confer on the bargaining unit impact of Provisions 17.9 
and 17.10 of this Article when it determines that there may be a need for implementation of any procedures 
in  Article  24,  Layoff.  In  the  event  of  layoff,  the  number  of  student  assistants'  hours  and  the  number  of 
administrators in a department shall not be increased for the purpose of performing bargaining unit work.  
  
 17.12  
  

When  the  CSU  determines  that  a  study  to  develop  new  classifications  or  to  revise  current 
classifications is necessary, the CSU shall notify the Union. Within fifteen (15) days of such notification, 
the  Union  may request to meet with the CSU to discuss the classification study. Such a meeting shall be 
held at the Office of the Chancellor. 

  
The Union may submit a written request and submit data in support of the request to the CSU to 
develop new classifications  or to revise current classifications. The CSU shall respond in writing to such 
request(s). 
  

The CSU shall notify the Union of the establishment of any new bargaining unit classification(s).  
The Union may, within 30 days of such notification, request the  University meet and confer on the impact 
of the implementation of any such newly established bargaining unit classification(s). 
  
 Outside Employment 
  
 17.13  
  

Outside employment shall not conflict with the responsibilities and duties of the employee to the 

CSU. 

  

ARTICLE 18 
HOURS OF WORK 
  
 Work Schedules 
  
 18.1  
  

Full-time employees in non-exempt classifications shall work a minimum workweek of forty (40) 

hours in a seven (7) day period or eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period. 
  

Under normal circumstances, work schedules shall provide for five (5) consecutive days' work in a 
seven  (7)  day  period,  or  four  (4)  consecutive  days'  work  in  a  seven  (7)  day  period.  For  a  3/12  work 
schedule,  work  days  may  be  three  (3)  consecutive  days  in  the  first  seven  (7)  day  period  and  four  (4) 
consecutive days in the second seven (7) day period of a fourteen (14) day schedule or three and one-half (3 
1/2) days in each seven (7) day period. 
  

For the purposes of administering a 3/12 work schedule, the schedule period shall begin at 12:01 

a.m. on Sunday and shall end at 12:00 midnight on the second succeeding Saturday. 
  

 18.2  
  

The  appropriate  administrator  shall  determine  the  work  schedule  for  an  employee.  An  employee 
shall  be  provided  with  notification  of  a  permanent work schedule change or a summer work schedule at 
least  twenty-one  (21)  days  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  the  work  schedule  change.  The  appropriate 
administrator may give consideration to employee seniority. 
  
 18.3  
  

For  those  employees  assigned  a  five  (5)  day  workweek,  the  workday  shall  normally  consist  of 
eight (8) hours. For those employees assigned a four (4) day workweek, the workday shall normally consist 
of ten (10) hours. For a 9/80 work schedule, employees will be required to work nine (9) hours per day on 
four (4) consecutive days during each work week and eight (8) hours per day on the alternating fifth (5) day 
during a fourteen (14) day period of time. For a 3/12 work schedule, a work week shall consist of three (3) 
twelve (12) hour days during the first week of a fourteen (14) day schedule and three (3) twelve (12) hour 
days and one eight (8) hour day during the succeeding week; or three (3) twelve (12) hour days and one (1) 
four (4) hour day in each seven (7) day period, of the fourteen (14) day schedule . 
  
 9/80 Work Schedule 
  

Bargaining unit employees will be given the opportunity to volunteer to participate in a 9/80 work 
schedule.  An  employee's  request  to  participate  will  be  subject  to  the  approval  of  his/her  appropriate 
administrator.  The  actual  days  and  hours  of  work  will  continue  to  be  scheduled  by  the  employee's 
appropriate administrator. The initial decision to request participation will be voluntary. 

An employee who participates will be required to remain in the 9/80 work schedule until removed 

from the schedule by his/her appropriate administrator. 
 

An employee may request that he/she withdraw from the 9/80 work schedule only as a result of a 
personal family emergency which renders the employee's continued participation in the 9/80 work schedule 
impossible. Such personal family emergency may include, but need not be limited to, child or elder care 
obligations, or employee conflict with non-CSU employment. Removal from the 9/80 work schedule under 
these circumstances is subject  to the approval of the employee's appropriate administrator. The appropriate 
administrator may request that the employee provide documentation in support of such a request. 
  
 18.4  
  

For  exempt  classifications,  there  are  no  fixed,  minimum  or  maximum  hours  in  a  workday  or 

An employee(s) may submit a written request to the appropriate administrator for a change in the 
work hours and/or workdays of his/her work schedule. Such requests shall be submitted twenty-one (21) 

For non-exempt classifications, the full-time workweek is a workweek of forty (40) hours within 
seven  (7)  consecutive  twenty-four  (24)  hour  days  or  one  hundred  and  sixty-eight  (168)  hours.  In 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  19,  employees  may  be  required  to  work  overtime  hours  as 
directed by the appropriate administrator. 
  
 18.5  
  

Less than full-time employees shall be assigned hours pro rata and days of work as determined by 

Employee Request for Work Schedule Change and/or Flexible Work Hours 

workweek. 
  

the President. 
  
  
  
 18.6  
  

days prior to the requested effective date of the change. An employee shall not submit more than four (4) 
such requests per year. 
  
 18.7  
  

If  deemed  necessary  by  the  appropriate  administrator  or  the  employee,  a  meeting  between  the 

appropriate administrator and the employee shall be held to discuss the work schedule change request. 
  
 18.8  
  

If  a  conflict  in  work  schedule  change  requests  arises,  the  appropriate  administrator  shall  give 

consideration to the employee(s) with the most seniority provided that operational needs are met. 
  
 18.9  
  

The  appropriate  administrator  shall  respond  in  writing  to  the  employee  regarding  approval  or 

denial of such request. 
  
 Meal Periods 
  
 18.10  
  

An employee shall be entitled to a meal period not to exceed sixty (60) minutes. The time of such 
meal period shall be designated by the appropriate administrator and shall be at or near the middle of the 
workday.  Such  meal  periods  shall  not  count  toward  hours  worked,  except  as  provided  for  in  Provision 
18.11. 
  
 18.11  
  

An employee required to remain on the job at his/her workstation for the full shift period shall be 

permitted to take a meal period, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, during work time. 
  
 Rest Periods 
  
 18.12  
  

An employee shall be allowed rest periods each workday of fifteen (15) minutes for each four (4) 
hours  worked.  Rest  period  schedules  shall  be  determined  by  the  appropriate  administrator  in  accordance 
with the operational needs of the department. Rest periods shall be counted towards hours worked. When 
an  employee  is  required  to  perform  duties  during  a  scheduled  rest  period,  the  appropriate  administrator 
shall  endeavor  to  reschedule  the  rest  period  for  that  workday.  Rest  period  time  not  taken  shall  not  be 
cumulative. 
  
 Clean-up Time - Units 2 and 9 
  
 18.13  
  

When  deemed  necessary  by  the  appropriate  administrator,  employees  shall  be  permitted  by  the 
appropriate administrator immediately prior to the end of their workday a clean-up period of up to ten (10) 
minutes as appropriate to perform personal washing and changing of clothes. Reasonable worktime shall be 
provided  to  an  employee  for  the  taking  of  showers  when  deemed  necessary  by  the  appropriate 
administrator. 
  
 Clean-up Time - Unit 5 
  
 18.14  

  

Employees shall be permitted immediately prior to the  end of their workday a clean-up period of 
ten  (10)  minutes  to  perform  personal  washing  and  changing  of  clothes.  Reasonable  worktime  shall  be 
provided  to  an  employee  for  the  taking  of  a  shower  when  deemed  necessary  by  the  appropriate 
administrator. 
  
 Clean-up Time - Unit 7 
  
 18.15  
  

in excess of eighty (80) hours within a fourteen (14) day schedule. 
  
 19.3  
  

Employees  in  a  print  shop  or  other  duplicating  facility  shall  be  permitted  by  the  appropriate 
administrator immediately prior to the end of their workday a clean-up period of up to ten (10) minutes as 
appropriate to perform personal washing and changing of clothes. 
  
 Telecommuting 
  
 18.16  
  
      If a campus determines that telecommuting is in its best interest, then a written telecommuting policy 
shall be developed. The provisions of this policy shall include, but not be limited to, the following:  
 
eligibility  for  both  position  and  employee  selection,  a  work  place  hazards  assessment,  responsibility  for 
equipment assignment, usage and maintenance, and business related costs.  
 
Telecommuting is only feasible for those job duties that can be performed away from the campus. 
  
Participation in telecommuting is voluntary and at the discretion of the appropriate administrator. 
 
Participation shall be based on a written agreement between the employee and appropriate administrator. 
The  written  agreement  shall  contain  the  work  schedule,  performance  expectations  and  duration  of  the 
assignment.  
  
All telecommuting work schedules require prior management approval. Hours of work shall be consistent 
with the operational needs of the organization and other Article 18 provisions. 
   
ARTICLE 19 
OVERTIME 
  
 Overtime Compensation 
  
 19.1  
  

Overtime  is  defined  as  authorized  time  worked  in  excess  of  forty  (40)  hours  in  a  seven  (7) 
consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period beginning at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and ending at 12:00 midnight 
the following Saturday. For employees assigned to a 9/80 work schedule, overtime is defined as authorized 
time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods beginning 
at 12:01 p.m. on Friday and ending at 12:00 p.m. (noon) on the following Friday. 
  
 19.2  
  

For the purposes of administering a 3/12 work schedule, overtime shall be defined as time worked 

Overtime shall be compensated in cash or in compensatory time off (CTO) as determined by the 
       
President  and  shall  be  paid  only  as  provided  in  Appendix  C  of  this  Agreement,  consistent  with  the 
provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).  The salary stipend (provision 20.37) shall be included 
in  base  wages  for  determining  compensation  for  overtime  earned  during  the  stipend  period.  Employees 
eligible to receive overtime shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half times their hourly straight 
time rate. 
  
 19.4  
  

Overtime shall be authorized and assigned by the appropriate administrator. 

Paid holiday, paid sick leave, and paid vacation time shall be counted as time worked for purposes 

  
 19.5  
  

of this Article. 
  
 19.6  
  

this Article. 
  

The only official methods for the computation and accumulation of overtime are those provided in 

Compensatory Time Off (CTO) 

All employees shall be classified as either exempt or non-exempt for purposes of compliance with 

The appropriate administrator shall endeavor to equalize the overtime work among all qualified 
employees who have expressed interest in overtime work. Advance notice of overtime opportunities shall 
be provided to all qualified employees whenever possible. An employee shall be required to work overtime 
if no qualified volunteer is available. 
  
 19.7  
  
       
the FLSA requirements for payment of overtime or compensatory time off (CTO). 
  
  
  
 19.8  
  
       
days in advance. CTO shall be scheduled and taken only as authorized by the appropriate administrator. 
  
 19.9  
  
       
When possible, the scheduling of earned CTO shall be by mutual agreement of the employee and 
the  appropriate  administrator. Upon reasonable notice to the employee, the appropriate administrator may 
direct the employee to take earned CTO.  
  
 19.10  
  

Requests for scheduling CTO shall be submitted to the appropriate administrator at least seven (7) 

CTO  should  be  taken  within  the  year  it  is  earned  whenever  possible.  If  an  employee  has  been 
unable  to  take  his/her  CTO  and  has  a  CTO  balance  in  excess  of  one  hundred  twenty  (120)  hours  as  of 
December  31,  he/she  shall  be  paid  in  cash  for  all  hours  in  excess  of  one  hundred  twenty  (120).  Such 
payment shall be made by February 1 of each year. 
  
 19.11  
  
       
employee's CTO balance. 
  

Upon  request  of  the employee, the appropriate administrator shall provide an accounting of the 

Overtime  eligibility  and  overtime  rates  shall  be  by  classification.  Such  eligibility  and  overtime 

earned CTO by reason of previous overtime worked. 
  
 19.13  
  
       
rates by classification are listed in Appendix C and incorporated by reference. 
  
 Extended Work Hour Meal Allowance 
  
 19.14  
  

 19.12  
  

When  an  employee  is  separated  from  service,  he/she  is  entitled  to  a  lump-sum payment for any 

Holiday  Work  Compensation  Overtime  -  See  Article  14,  Vacations  and  Holidays  (Holidays, 

Overtime shall not include time spent in travel to and from the work site except as provided for in 

When  an  employee is required to work more than two (2) hours before or two (2) hours after a 
regularly scheduled workday, he/she may claim the cost of each meal up to the maximum allowed for lunch 
in accordance with CSU travel regulations. All claims for extended work hour meal reimbursements must 
be supported by a voucher. The time taken to consume the meal will not be included in the computation of 
extended work hours for the purpose of this allowance. 
  
       
An  employee  shall  not  be  required  to  interrupt  his/her work to consume his/her extended work 
hour meal. Extended work hour meals may be taken before, after or during the extended work hour period. 
This provision shall not apply to employees receiving a per diem rate. 
  
 19.15  
  
       
Article 22, Professional Development. 
  
 19.16  
  
       
Holiday Work Compensation). 
  
 Call-Back 
  
 19.17  
  
      
Call-back  work  is  work  performed  at  a  time  outside  of  and  not  continuous  with  an  employee's 
regular work schedule. An employee called back to work shall receive no less than three (3) hours pay at 
the  overtime  rate  unless  such  call-back is within three (3) hours of the beginning of the employee's next 
shift, in which case the employee shall only be paid for the hours remaining before the beginning of the 
employee's next shift.  
  
 19.18  
  
      
An  employee  may  be  called  back  to  work at the discretion of the appropriate administrator. The 
appropriate administrator shall endeavor to assign call-back work on a volunteer basis. If no volunteers are 
available, or in an emergency situation, the employee who is called back shall be required to work. 
  
 On-Call Time 
  
 19.19  
  
       
On-call  time  is  time  outside  of  an  employee's  regular  work  schedule  but  during  which  an 
employee must be available to report to work if deemed necessary by the appropriate administrator. On-call 

time  is  not  compensable.  If  an  on-call  employee  is  contacted  by  an  appropriate  administrator  for  the 
purpose of performing work, then Provisions 19.17 and 19.18 shall apply. 
  
 19.20  
  
       
When the CSU determines that an employee shall be placed on call, the employee may use his/her 
on-call time for his/her own purposes, subject to the employee being reachable by beeper/pager or leaving a 
telephone  number  where  he/she  can  be  contacted  while  on  call.  If  contacted  by  the  appropriate 
administrator, the employee shall report to work within a reasonable period of time. 
  
ARTICLE 20 
SALARY 
 
20.1  
 

The salary schedule for bargaining unit employees in Units 2, 5, 7, and 9 shall be 

An  employee  shall  be  assigned  a  salary  rate  within  the  salary  range  or  sub-range appropriate to 

(Market Equity Agreement). 
  
Shift Differential 
  
20.6  
 

found in Appendix E and incorporated in this Agreement by reference. 
 
20.2  
 

his/her classification . The salary range or sub-range for each 
classification shall include a minimum salary rate and maximum salary rate. 
  
20.3  
 

Employee  compensation  programs, including the General Salary Increase (GSI), the Merit Salary 
Increase  (MSI),  and  the  Market  Salary  Adjustment  (MSA),  shall  be  implemented  only  in  fiscal  year  s  in 
which  the  parties  expressly  agree  to  such  programs  or  agree  to  provide  increases  in  such  programs. For 
fiscal year 2000-2001, these programs, as set forth in this Agreement , shall become effective July 1, 2000. 
  
General Salary Increase 
  
20.4  
 

For  fiscal  year  2000-2001,  all  salary  rates  on  the  salary  ranges  for  all  bargaining  unit 
classifications , and the individual salary rates of all bargaining unit members shall be increased effective 
July 1, 2000, by 2.00% provided that the final state budget general fund appropriation and allocation to the 
CSU is no less than the level of the general fund appropriation to the CSU in the Governor’s May 15, 2000, 
Budget for fiscal year 2000/01; and Market Salary Adjustments. 
 
20.5  
 

For  fiscal  year  2000-2001,  the  parties  shall  negotiate  the  distribution  of  a  two  percent  (2%) 
increase  in  the  compensation  pool  for  bargaining  unit  employees  in  designated  classifications  to  be 
effective on July 1, 2000, provided that the final state budget general fund appropriation and allocation to 
the CSU is no less than the level of the general fund appropriation to the CSU  in the Governor’s May 15, 
2000, Budget for fiscal year 2000/01. 
  

The  designated  classifications  and  the  percent  increase  shall  be  as  specified  in  Appendix  F 

An  eligible  employee  who  is  regularly  assigned to work four (4) or more hours between 6 p.m. 
and midnight (exclusive of overtime ) shall be paid a shift differential of one dollar and twenty-five cents 
($1.25) per hour for the employee's entire shift. 
  
20.7  
 

An eligible employee who is regularly assigned to work four (4) or more hours between midnight 
and 6 a.m. (exclusive of overtime ) shall be paid a shift differential of two dollars and twenty cents ($2.20) 
per hour for the employee's entire shift. 
  
20.8  
 

An  eligible  employee  who  is  regularly assigned to work a shift that begins between 6 p.m. and 
midnight  and  continues  for  at  least  four  (4)  hours  beyond  midnight  shall  be  paid  a  shift  differential  in 
accordance with provision 20.7. Such hours shall be exclusive of overtime . 
  
20.9  
 

All  non-exempt  employees  who  are  regularly  assigned  to  a  shift  as  defined  in  provisions  20.6, 

20.7 and 20.8 are eligible to receive a shift differential. 
  
Pay Plans 
  
20.10  
 

Probationary  and  permanent  employees  shall  be  eligible  to  request  participation  in  the  10/12 or 
11/12 pay plan . The assignment of an eligible employee into the 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan and the yearly 
schedule shall be by mutual agreement of the appropriate administrator and the employee. Final approval 
by the President is required prior to employee participation in the 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan. 
  
20.11  
 

A 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan yearly schedule shall provide that the appropriate                 period of 

time in work status and non-work status shall be scheduled within one (1)                 year. 
  
20.12  
 

A  yearly  schedule  for  an  employee  in  the  10/12  pay  plan  program  shall  normally  be  five  (5) 
consecutive  pay  periods  in  work  status,  followed  by  one  (1)  pay  period  in  non-work status, or ten (10) 
consecutive pay periods in work status, followed by two (2) consecutive pay periods in non-work status. A 
yearly schedule for an employee in the 11/12 pay plan program shall normally be eleven (11) consecutive 
pay periods in work status followed by one (1) pay period in non-work status. 
  
20.13  
 

Variations of a normal yearly schedule may be approved by the President, except that a variation 
of a normal yearly schedule shall not provide for a period of time in non-work status that requires advance 
payment of salary . Variations may include, but shall  not be limited to, a movement from work status to 
non-work status at times other than the beginning of a pay period or patterns other than the normal yearly 
schedule, such as "6-1:4-1" or "7-1:3-1." Some variations of a normal yearly schedule may require delayed 
adjustments in salary payments. 
  
20.14  
 

Withdrawal from participation in the 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan and return to a twelve (12) month 
annual  work  year  may  be  requested  by  an  employee  in  accordance  with  campus  procedures.  The 

appropriate administrator may request an employee on the 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan return to a twelve month 
annual work year. 

In  both  instances,  the  employee  and  the  appropriate  administrator  shall  attempt  to  reach  mutual 
agreement  regarding  the  request.  In  the  absence  of  mutual  agreement,  the  President  shall  make  a  final 
determination  as  to  the  approval  or  denial  of  such  requests.  The  President  may  return  an  employee  to  a 
twelve (12) month annual work year. The employee shall be provided written notice four (4) months prior 
to such a return. 
  
20.15  

An employee participating in the 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan shall receive his/her (10 month or 11 

month) annual salary in twelve (12) salary warrants and appropriate benefits on a twelve (12) month basis. 
  
20.16  
 

An  employee  moving  from  a  twelve  (12)  month  status  to  the  10/12  or  11/12  plan  shall  retain 

his/her anniversary date. 
  
20.17  
 

 

An employee on the 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan shall accrue sick leave, vacation, and seniority during 
the full twelve (12) month period. An employee on the 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan who is not in work status 
on the day a holiday is officially observed shall not be entitled to the holiday. 
  
20.18  
 

Ten (10) or eleven (11) months of service by an employee in the 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan shall 

constitute one (1) year of service for employment status matters, Merit Salary Increase, and retirement 
  
20.19  
 

Approval or denial by the President of employee requests as specified in provision 20.10 shall be 
based on operational need and shall not be unreasonably denied. This provision shall not be subject to the 
Grievance Procedure. 
  
20.20 
 

Employees serving in an academic year appointment that is less than full-time will be paid at the 
equivalent full twelve (12) month hourly rate for any time worked in excess of the academic year assigned 
timebase . 
  
Merit Salary Increase 
  
20.21 
 

If  agreement  between  the  CSU  and  CSEA  is  reached  on  provision  20.23,  then  the  contract 
provisions 20.23 through 20.27 and 20.29 through 20.30 will be stricken from the 1999/2001 collective 
bargaining agreement. If agreement on provision 20.23 is not reached, provisions 20.23 through 20.27 and 
20.29 through 20.30 will remain in the agreement. 
  

a.  A  Merit  Salary  Increase  (MSI)  is  movement  within  a  salary  range  based  upon  an 
overall  annual  job  performance rating of satisfactory, its equivalent, or better. An 
overall  rating  is  a  comprehensive  rating  based  on  a  review  of  all  performance 
categories 

b.  Employees with an overall rating below satisfactory, or its equivalent, or less than 
twelve (12) months of campus service as of July 1, 2000, shall not be eligible. An 

  

  

  

  

 

  

MSI shall be based upon the fiscal year 1999/2000 performance evaluation or the 
most recent annual performance evaluation in accordance with campus policy. 

c.  Each  employee  shall  receive  a  performance evaluation in accordance with Article 
10, Employee Performance. This procedure does not require campuses to modify 
existing performance evaluation forms unless existing forms do not have an overall 
rating. In such cases an overall rating must be determined and added or attached to 
the  performance  evaluation  form.  Existing  annual  performance  evaluations  and 
overall  ratings  contained  in  the  official  personnel  file  shall  remain  unchanged 
except  with  the  addition  of  an  overall  rating  where  none  exists. No employees’ 
overall  performance  rating  shall  be  changed  after  it  has  been  presented  to  the 
employee for signature. 

d.  An  employee  whose  performance  has  been  rated  overall  as  satisfactory,  or  its 
equivalent,  shall  receive  a  1.2%  (one  and  two-tenths  percent)  increase.  An 
employee  whose  performance  has  been  rated  overall  as  above  satisfactory  shall 
receive  an  increase  in  excess  of  1.2%  (one  and  two-tenths percent). The percent 
increase  shall  be  determined  by  the  President,  the  President’s  designee  or  other 
appropriate administrator. All CSEA represented employees rated at the same level 
of  overall  performance  on  the  same  campus  shall  receive  the  same  percentage 
increase to the nearest tenth of a percent. This increase shall be an increase to the 
employees  base salary except for those employees at the top of the salary range as 
described  in  provision  20.21(e).  In  no  event  shall  an  MSI  increase  cause  an 
employee’s salary rate to exceed the maximum of the range. 

e. 

In cases where bargaining unit employees have reached the top of the classification 
salary  range  or  sub-range  in  the  salary  schedule  in  Appendix  E,  the  percentage 
increase for an MSI shall be in the form of a lump sum bonus based on the annual 
gross earnings between 7/1/99 and 6/30/2000. 

f.  During  the  fiscal  year  2000/2001,  the  amount  of  the  compensation  pool  funds 
assigned  to  the  MSI  program  shall  be  $6,235,900  excluding  associated  benefits 
costs.  The  above  sum  of  $6,235,900  for  fiscal  year  2000/2001  shall  be 
proportionally  allocated  to  individual  campuses  based  upon  the  salary  base  of 
CSEA represented employees on each campus. MSI Compensation pool funds may 
be  augmented  with  campus  funds.  The  effective  date  for  an  MSI  shall  be  July  1, 
2000. 

g.  The  implementation  of  the  MSI  program  as  described  in  provision 20.21 requires 
changes to the salary schedule and other components of the compensation program 
including  but  not  limited  to  the  SBSI  program.  All  of  these  changes  required  to 
implement provision 20.21 are in effect only for fiscal year 2000/2001 and shall not 
be extended without the express written consent of both CSEA and the CSU. This 
provision  shall  not  supercede  the  work  of  the  Labor  Management  Committee 
(LMC) as described in Section 20.22. The work of the LMC shall be extended into 
fiscal year 2000/2001. 

h.  The  decision  of  the  President,  the  President’s  designee,  or  other  appropriate 
administrator  as  to  who  is  to  receive  an  MSI  and  the  percent  amount  for  each 
performance  rating  level  of  the  MSI  shall  not  be  subject  to  Article  7,  Grievance 
Procedure,  unless  the  employee  alleges  that  he  or  she  did  not  receive  the  same 
percent  increase  to  the  nearest  tenth  of  a  percent  as  other  employees  at  the  same 
performance rating level, or if the employee alleges that an exisitng overall rating 
was  changed  for  the  sole  and  express  purpose  of  denying  an  MSI.  Performance 
evaluations  shall  not  be  subject  to  Article  7,  Grievance  Procedure,  unless  the 

grievant alleges the procedures in the provisions of Article 10 or this Section have 
been violated, misinterpreted, or misapplied. 

  
Labor Management Committee 
  
20.22  
 

 

  

  

  

  

  

 

 

 

  

  

  
20.23  

a.  Within  sixty  (60)  days  of  the  ratification  of  this  Agreement  the  parties  agree  to 
form a Labor Management Committee (LMC). The LMC shall develop goals and 
objectives for carrying out its mission. The tasks of  the LMC include, but are not 
limited to: 

1.  creating an LMC structure system wide to provide for input on 
compensation  and  performance  management  programs, 
including  but  not  limited  to,  general  salary  increases,  service 
based  salary  increases,  performance  based  salary  increases, 
longevity  pay  and  market  salary  adjustments,  and  related 
workload issues from the divergent occupational groupings of 
employees in bargaining unit s 2, 5, 7 and 9; 

2.  evaluating and recommending compensation and performance 
management  programs  from  institutions  of  higher  education 
and other comparable organizations; 

3.  evaluating 

the  CSU 

and  performance 
management  programs  and  recommending  future  strategies; 
and 

compensation 

4. 

recommending  implementation  strategies  and  timetables  for 
alternatives presented. 

b.  The parties agree to utilize an organization development consultant (agreeable to 
both  the  CSU  and  CSEA  )  with  proven  ability  to  facilitate  labor  management 
committees with large multi-location interests. 

c.  The CSU agrees to pay the consultant costs in an amount not to exceed $100,000. 

d.  The LMC shall be composed of twelve (12) voting members, six (6) selected by 
the  CSEA  and  six  (6)  selected  by  the  CSU  who  shall  have  the  authority  to 
represent and act on behalf of their constituents. 

1.  Two  co-chairs  of  the  LMC  shall  be  selected,  one  from  the 

voting members of each party. 

2.  The LMC shall operate by consensus. 

e.  Release  time  shall  be  provided  to  members  of  the  LMC  for  the  purpose  of 

participating on the committee . 

f.  The  Vice  Chancellor  of  Human  Resources  (VCHR)  shall  work  with  CSEA  to 
select a mutually acceptable consultant facilitator. The LMC shall provide periodic 
reports  to  the  CSU  and  CSEA.  The  LMC  shall  present  its  final  report  to  the 
VCHR,  and  to  CSEA,  which  may  take  recommendations  of  the  LMC  to  its 
constituencies for their approval. 

Within  ninety 

(90)  days  of 

ratification, 

the  parties  agree 

to 

form  an 

Information                 

Technology  Labor  Management  Committee  (ITLMC)  to  assess  and  provide    recommendations  to  their 
constituents on the recruitment and retention of IT employees including salaries, professional development 
and other IT staffing issues. 
  

The ITLMC shall be composed of twelve (12) voting members, six (6) selected by the CSEA and 

six (6) selected by the CSU who shall have the authority to represent and act on behalf of their constituents. 
  

a.  Two  co-chairs  of  the  ITLMC  shall  be  selected,  one  from  the  voting  members  of 

each party. 

b.  The ITLMC shall operate by consensus. 

Release  time  shall  be  provided  to  members  of  the  ITLMC  for  the  purpose  of 
participating on the committee . 

  
20.24  
 

 

  

  

  

  

During  fiscal  year  2000/2001,  the  compensation  pool  allocated  to  CSEA-represented bargaining 
unit  s  shall  be  dedicated  to  but  not  limited  to:  GSIs,  MSIs,  Market  Salary  Adjustment  s  and  other 
compensation programs. CSEA may take the recommendations of the LMC to its constituencies for their 
approval. If the CSEA constituencies do not approve the consensus agreement, recommended by the LMC, 
then  this  provision  and  the  percentages  specified  herein  shall  be  subject  to  the  2000/2001  re-opener 
negotiations, or subsequent negotiations, as specified in Article 25 of this agreement. 
  
20.25  
 

For  fiscal  year  2000/2001,  the  amount  of  funds  dedicated  to  the  MSI  program  pursuant  to 
provision 20.21 above, will be expended on MSIs. If the total amount of funds dedicated to this program in 
fiscal  year  2000-2001  is  not  allocated  or  encumbered  for  MSI  recipients  by  February  1,  the  Union  may 
request  by  the  following  March  15  to  meet  with  CSU  to  negotiate  regarding  the  unallocated  or 
unencumbered funds, and CSU shall agree to such a request. 
  
20.26 Bonus Plans 
  

A  bonus  is  a  lump  sum  payment  that  is  not  a  permanent  increase  to  the  base  salary  of  the 
individual and may be granted at the discretion of the President . A bonus may be awarded at any time and 
may be used for a variety of salary adjustments including, but not limited to the following: 
  

a.  Performance  recognition  of  a  bargaining  unit  employee  shall  be  in  the  form  of  a 
bonus, of no more than the equivalent of an annual salary increase of five percent 
(5%) in the case of bargaining unit members who have reached the top of his/her 
classification salary range or sub-range in the salary schedule in Appendix E. These 
bonuses shall be from campus funds. 

b.  A recruitment bonus may be offered to a candidate as an inducement to commit to 
employment  with  the  CSU  .  If  the  candidate  does  not  complete  the  probationary 
period , the bonus must be returned to the CSU. 

c.  A  retention  bonus  may  be  awarded  to  an  employee for staying with the CSU and 
who is in a position in a classification that is critical to the ongoing operations of 
the  CSU,  is  in  short  supply  in  the  labor  market,  and  is  a  difficult  to  recruit  for 
classification.  The  requirements  for  the  retention  bonus  must  be  in  writing.  The 
minimum time period that an employee must commit to stay with the CSU in order 
to receive a retention bonus is twelve (12) months. 

d.  A  critical  skills  bonus  may  be  awarded  to  an  employee  who  possesses  and  uses 
skills  that  are  necessary  and  critical  to  the  ongoing  operations  of  the  CSU  .  The 
employee must be actively using the skills in order to receive the bonus. 

e.  An  individual  or  group  performance  bonus  may  be  awarded  for  exceptional 
performance.  The  performance  criteria  must  be  in  writing  and  generally  must  be 
made known prior to the performance period. 

f.  The decision of the President , made in accordance with this provision, regarding 
the award of a bonus shall be final and shall not be subject to Article 7, Grievance 
Procedure. 

g.  The bonuses in sub-provisions (a) through (e) shall be campus funded. 

For non-exempt employee s, all bonus awards must be based on a percentage                 of the 

  

  

 

  

  
20.27  
 

annual gross salary. 
  
In Range Progression 
  
20.28  
 

  
Salary Stipends 
  
20.30  
 

  

  

An  increase  within  a  salary  range  for  a  single  classification  or  within  a  sub-range  of  a 
classification  with  skill  level  s  is  referred  to  as  an  In-Range  Progression.  When  the  President,  the 
President’s designee, or appropriate administrator determines that an in range progression should occur, the 
salary shall increase by at least two and one-half percent (2.5%). 
  
Salaries for Classifications with Skill Levels and Sub-ranges 
  
20.29  
 

The  following  provisions  shall  apply  to  employees  appointed  or  assigned  to  classifications  with 

skill level s and sub-ranges: 
  

a.  Within  each  salary  range  for  such  a  classification  ,  sub-ranges  with  specified 

minimum and maximum rates are defined for each skill level . 

b.  Employees shall be appointed or assigned by the President to a salary within a sub-
range  for  the  applicable  skill  level  within  the  classification  based  on  the 
requirements  of  the  position  and  an  assessment  of  the  employee  's  qualifications 
and  skills  by  the  President.  This  provision  shall  not  be  subject  to  the  grievance 
procedure . 

An  employee  shall  receive  a  monthly  salary  stipend  when  assigned  by  an  appropriate 
administrator  to  temporary  project  coordination  or  lead  work  functions.    These  supplemental  work 
assignments are to be made in writing and must have a specific beginning and ending date. 
  

a.  The  stipend  is  paid  on  a  month  to  month  basis  for  the  duration  of  the  work 

assignment. 

b.  The stipend shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the base monthly salary rate to be 

paid on a monthly basis. 

c.  The decision of the appropriate administrator , made in accordance with this article, 
regarding  the  supplemental  assignment  of  temporary  lead  work  or  project 
coordination functions shall be final and shall not be subject to Article 7, Grievance 
Procedure. 

  

  
Red Circle Rates 
  
20.31 
 

A red circle rate is a salary rate above the maximum of the salary range for a class or sub-range for 
a skill level which may be granted by the President when an employee moves to a class or skill level with a 
lower salary range. 
  
20.32  
 

An employee whose class is abolished and who moves to a class or skill level with a lower salary 

range as a result of implementation of a new classification shall be granted a red circle rate . 
  
20.33 
 

If a red circle rate is granted, the employee shall  retain the salary currently being paid (or a lesser 
salary rate up to twenty-five percent (25%) above the maximum salary rate of the lower class or skill level ) 
and shall remain at that salary rate until the maximum salary rate of the lower class or skill level equals or 
exceeds the red circle salary rate or until the authorized time period for maintaining the red circle salary 
rate expires, whichever occurs first. 
  
20.34 
 

During the period of time an employee 's salary remains above the maximum                 salary rate 
for  the  class,  the  employee  shall  not  receive  further  salary  increases,  including  Merit  Salary  Increases  or 
General Salary Increase s, except in cases of promotion while on a red circle rate. 
  
20.35  
 

Red  circle  rates  shall  not  exceed  twenty-five  percent  (25%)  above  the  maximum  of  the  salary 
range of the class or skill level to which the employee is moving. An employee may retain a red circle rate 
for up to five (5) years. 
  
20.36  
 
Red circle rates shall not be authorized for an employee when: 
 

a.  an employee, for personal convenience, requests voluntary demotion; 
b.  an employee is demoted for cause other than for medical reasons. 

 
20.37  
 

An  employee  who  was  compensated  at  a  salary  rate  above  the  maximum  prior  to  a  permanent 
separation will not be entitled to a red circle rate upon his/her return to work. Also, the authorization for a 
red circle rate shall be canceled if the employee refuses a bona fide offer of appointment to a position at the 
campus in a class or skill level in the same occupational group at a salary level equivalent to the original 
class or skill level from which the employee was moved. 
  

Emergency Pay 
  
20.38  
 

When  the  President  has  declared  a  state  of  emergency  at  a  campus,  in  exchange  for  the 
performance of emergency work by bargaining unit employees outside of their normal assignment, and at a 
time when those employees would, subject to the approval of the University, otherwise have been able to 
use administrative leave , the following emergency pay will be provided. Non-exempt personnel required to 
return to work shall receive emergency pay of an additional one-half (1/2) hour for each hour worked up to 
forty (40) hours per week. Hours worked in addition to forty (40) hours per week shall be paid at time and 
one-half (the inclusion of the phrase "an additional" is for the purpose of clarification only). 
  
ARTICLE 21 
BENEFITS 
 
Health 
  
21.1  
 

Eligible  employees  and  eligible  family  members  as  defined  by  PERS  shall  continue  to  receive 
health benefits offered through the PERS system for the life of this Agreement . Payment for those benefits 
shall be based on rates established by PERS for participating members. The Employer contribution shall be 
based on current formula as provided in Government Code Section 22825.1 for fiscal year 2000-2001. 
  
Dental 
  
21.2  
 

For  the  life  of  this  Agreement  ,  the  dental  benefits  provided  by  the  CSU  through  the  insurer(s) 
selected by the CSU for its indemnity and prepaid dental plans shall be offered to eligible employees and 
eligible  family  members  as  defined  in  Provisions  21.4  through  21.7.  The  CSU  Enhanced  Level  II 
Indemnity Dental Plan shall be offered to eligible employees and eligible family members. For fiscal year 
2000-2001, the Employer 's contribution to such plans shall equal one hundred percent (100%) of the basic 
monthly premium. 
  
Vision Care 
  
21.3  
 

For  fiscal  year  2000-2001,  eligible  employees  and  eligible  family  members  as  defined  in 
Provisions  21.4  through  21.7  shall  be  entitled  to  receive  vision  care  benefits.  Such  benefits  shall  be 
provided by the CSU through carriers selected by the CSU, and for fiscal year 2000-2001, the CSU hereby 
agrees the Employer 's contribution shall equal one hundred percent (100%) of the basic monthly premium. 
  
Eligibility 
  
21.4  
 

The term "eligible employee (s)" as used in this Article shall mean an employee or employees who 
are  appointed  half-time or more for more than six (6) months. Those excluded from dental benefits and 
vision care benefits include intermittent employee s or any employee paid wholly from funds not controlled 
by the CSU or from revolving or similar funds from which a regular State share payment of the insurance 
premium cannot be made. 
  
21.5  
 

The  term  "eligible  family  member(s)"  as  used  in  this  Article  shall  mean  the  eligible  employee 's 
legal spouse, and unmarried children from birth to the end of the month in which the dependent children 
reach age twenty-three (23). An adopted child, step-child, natural child recognized by the parent, or a child 
living with the employee i a parent-child relationship who is economically dependent upon the employee is 
also eligible. A family member who is a disabled child over the age twenty-three (23) may also be enrolled 
if, at the time of initial enrollment of the employee, satisfactory evidence of such disability is presented to 
the carrier consistent with the carrier's requirements. Upon attaining age twenty-three (23), a disabled child 
who is already enrolled may be continued in enrollment if satisfactory evidence of that disability is filed 
with the carrier in accordance with the carrier's criteria. 
  
21.6  
 

If  during  the  term  of  this  Agreement  ,  legislation  is  enacted  to  provide  a  funded  rural  health 

subsidy to eligible CSU employees, the CSU will negotiate the implementation of this benefit. 
  
Health, Dental and Vision Benefits for Domestic Partners of CSU Benefit Eligible Employees 
  
21.7  
 

The  parties  agree  to  extend  health,  dental  and  vision  benefits  to  domestic  partners,  as  defined 
pursuant to section 297 et. Seq. of the Family Code, Article 9, section 22867 et. Seq. of the Government 
Code and section 1261 of the Health and Safety Code, of benefit eligible employees in CSEA-represented 
bargaining units.   The parties further agree that the registration of domestic partners of  CSEA-represented 
benefit eligible employees, and all other procedures and conditions required to receive health benefits, as 
currently  set  forth  in  PERS  Circular  Letter  600-18,  shall  also  apply  to  the  receipt  of  dental  and  vision 
benefits. 
It is further understood and agreed that the parties to this agreement do not intend to waive, and do 
  
not  waive,  their  individual  and/or  collective  rights  to  challenge,  including  in  a  court  of  competent 
jurisdiction, the propriety and/or legality of PERS regulations as set forth in PERS Circular Letter 600-18. 
If said PERS regulations are                 revised, Circular Letter 600-18 regulations as amended will continue 
to  control  the  implementation  of  health,  dental  and  vision  benefits  for  the  domestic  partners  of  CSEA-
represented  benefit  eligible  employees.  Any  such  changes  involving  mandatory  bargaining  subjects  under 
HEERA shall be subject to negotiation upon 30-day notice by a party to this agreement. 
  
Non-Industrial Disability Insurance 
  
21.8  
 

The  maximum  weekly  payment  for  eligible  employees  shall  be  two  hundred  fifty  dollars 

($250.00).   

 
403 (b) Plan 

  
21.9  
 

All members of CSEA-represented bargaining unit s shall be eligible to participate in tax-sheltered 
annuity  programs  in  accordance  with  the  regulations  and  procedures  as  established  by  the  CSU  and 
according to IRS regulations. 
  
Information Regarding Benefits 
  
21.10  
 

The  campus  Human  Resources  Office  shall  provide  information  concerning  an  individual 
employee  's  rights  under  NDI  ,  IDL  ,  Temporary  Disability,  Social  Security  and/or  PERS  retirement 

options.  Upon  written  request,  an  employee  shall  be  granted  an  appointment  ,  during  work  time,  for  the 
purpose of discussing such rights. 
  
Travel Reimbursement 
 
21.11  
 

Employee expenses incurred as a result of travel on  official CSU business shall be reimbursed in 

accordance with CSU travel regulations. 
  
Parking 
 
21.12  
 

Employees wishing to park at any CSU facility shall pay the parking fee in accordance with CSU 
campus policy. Effective July 1, 2000, parking for CSEA-represented employees at Sonoma shall increase 
by  no  more  than  two  dollars  ($2.00)  per  month.  During  fiscal  year  2000/2001  there  shall  be  no  other 
parking fee increases. The CSU shall provide payroll deductions for this purpose. 
  
Uniform Reimbursement 
 
21.13  
 

Employees  in  classification  codes  8351  (Parking  Officer),  8352  (Campus  Guard),  8353 
(Supervising  Parking  Officer),  8980  (Campus  Fire  Apparatus  Engineer),  and  8981  (Supervising  Campus 
Fire Apparatus Engineer), who are required to wear an official uniform, shall be reimbursed actual costs up 
to three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) per calendar year for the replacement and maintenance of uniforms, 
subject  to  CSU  accountable  plan  regulations.  Such  employees  shall  be  responsible  for  the  purchase  and 
maintenance of uniforms for employment. 
 
21.14  
 

All  employees  in  Class  Code  8349  (Public  Safety  Dispatcher)  appointed  in  excess  of  six  (6) 
months who are required to wear a uniform as a condition of employment shall be reimbursed actual costs 
for  replacement  and  maintenance  up  to  two  hundred  dollars  ($200),  subject  to  CSU  accountable  plan 
regulations. 
 
21.15  
 

Uniform  reimbursements  shall  be  excluded  from  the  Public  Employees'  Retirement  Plan's 

All  deductions  from  the  lump-sum  payment  for  uniform  reimbursement  shall  be  in  accordance 

definition of compensation. 
  
21.16  
 

with state and federal law. 
 
21.17  
 

Employees may submit reimbursement claims up to the annual maximum as stated in 21.13 and 
21.14  for  uniform  replacement  and  maintenance  costs  on  a  monthly  basis.  Reimbursements  will  be 
processed  in  accordance  with  campus  accounting  procedures.  No  employee  shall  be  required  to  expend 
more than the amount indicated in Provisions 21.13 and 21.14 above on the replacement and maintenance 
of uniforms in a calendar year . 
 
21.18  

 

When  the  CSU  provides  a  uniform  to  the  employee  ,  the  employee  is  required  to  wear  that 

uniform. The CSU will provide a reasonable number of uniforms. 
  
Employee Assistance Programs 
 
21.19  
 

The  CSU  shall  continue  the  existing  Employee  Assistance  Program  at  each  campus.  Records 

pertaining to an employee 's participation in the Employee Assistance Program shall remain confidential . 
  

Upon approval, an employee undergoing treatment may use accrued sick leave, CTO, and vacation 
leave credits for  such a purpose.  Leaves of absence without pay may be granted by the President upon the 
recommendation  of  the  Employee  Assistance  Program  Coordinator  if  all  sick  leave,  holiday  credits, 
vacation and CTO have been exhausted and the employee is not eligible  to use Industrial Disability Leave 
or Non-Industrial Disability Insurance Leave. 
  

The President may elect to defer further or pending disciplinary action until the completion of the 
rehabilitation program and a reasonable period of time after the employee has returned to work. At the end 
of this reasonable period, the decision to impose discipline will be reevaluated. 
  
Dependent Care Reimbursement 
 
21.20  
 

All  bargaining  unit  employees  shall  be  entitled  to  participate  in  the  CSU  Dependent  Care 
Reimbursement Program . The terms of this program shall be determined by the CSU and IRS regulations. 
All administrative costs for participation shall be paid by participating employees. 
  
Retirement 
 
21.21  
 

Eligible employees shall be included in the "State Peace Officer/Firefighter Member" membership 

category under PERS as provided in Government Code Section 20396. 
 
Enhanced 1959 Survivors Benefit 
  
21.22  
 

Eligible  employees  as  defined  under  the  Public  Employees'  Retirement  System  shall  receive  the 
improved  1959  Survivors  Benefit  as  provided  for  in  Government  Code  Section  21573.  Bargaining  unit 
employees shall pay a premium of two dollars ($2.00) per month for this benefit. All monthly premiums in 
excess of the employee contribution shall be paid by the CSU . 
  
Dependent Care 
 
21.23 
 

The CSU recognizes the importance of child care , elder care, and disabled dependent care needs 
to  bargaining  unit  employees.  Employees  may  participate  in  childcare  programs  in  accordance  with 
existing campus and systemwide policies . At an employee 's request, he/she may participate in a flex-time 
program,  upon  verification  of  his/her  dependent  care  needs.  The  appropriate  administrator  shall  give 
consideration  to  an  employee's  child  care,  elder  care,  and  disabled  dependent  care  needs  when  an 
involuntary work schedule change is to be made. The decision of the appropriate administrator regarding 

voluntary  and  involuntary  work  schedule  changes,  including  participation  in  flex-time  programs,  made 
pursuant to this provision, shall be final and shall not be subject to Article 7, Grievance Procedure. 
 
Health Premium Conversion Program (TAPP) 
 
21.24  
 

All eligible employees who contribute toward health benefits pursuant to Provision 21.1 shall be 
entitled to participate in the CSU Health Premium Conversion Program. The terms of this program shall be 
determined  by  the  CSU.  All  administrative  costs  for  participation  shall  be  paid  by  the  participating 
employees. 
  
FlexCash Plan 
 
21.25  
 

All employees eligible for health and dental insurance, pursuant to this Article, shall be entitled to 
participate in the CSU FlexCash Plan. A participating employee may waive health and/or dental insurance 
coverage in exchange for the following monthly payments: 
  

1.  Waive medical & dental $140 per month 
2.  Waive medical only $128 per month 
3.  Waive dental only $ 12 per month 

  

In order to participate in the Plan, an employee will be required to request participation and certify that 
he/she  has  alternate  non-CSU  coverage  in  the  insurance  being  waived.  The  terms  of  this  Plan  shall be 
determined  by  the  CSU  .  All  administrative  costs  for  participation  shall  be  paid  by  the  participating 
employees. 
 
Part-Time Employees Retirement Plan 
 
21.26  
 

Part-time, seasonal, temporary and intermittent employee s who do not otherwise participate in the 
Public Employees Retirement System will be included in the University of California Defined Contribution 
Plan,  a  FICA-Safe  Harbor  Plan,  in  accordance  with  the  regulations  under  section  3121(b)(7)(f)  of  the 
Internal Revenue Code. The total cost of the plan will be paid by participating employees in the form of a 
seven  and  one-half  percent  (7.5%)  pretax  reduction,  in  accordance  with  section  414(h)  of  the  Internal 
Revenue Code, from a participating employee 's covered wages each pay period. There shall be no cost to 
the CSU . 
  

The  CSEA  shall  receive  appropriate  advance  notice  of  any  change  to  this  Plan.  In  the  case  of 
termination of the Plan or revision of the employees' contribution rate, the CSEA shall receive appropriate 
advance notice and the parties will meet and confer over the impact of such termination or revision. 
 
Golden Handshake 
  
21.26  
 

If,  during  the  life  of  this  Agreement  ,  the  Office  of  the  Governor  and  the  Department  of       

Finance advise the CSU of the availability of the early retirement program (so-called "Golden Handshake") 
for CSEA-represented employees, the University agrees to notify the Union and, upon written request from 
the Union, to meet and confer regarding said availability. 
  
ARTICLE 22 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 

  
 General Training and Development 
 
22.1  
 

An employee may submit a request for training and development to the appropriate administrator.  
Such a request may include, but is not limited to, release time with pay, flexible working hours, tuition, and 
travel. If such a request is denied by the appropriate administrator, such denial shall be in writing. 
  
22.2  
  

When  an  employee  is  required  by  an  appropriate  administrator  to  take  work-related training, the 
employee  shall  be  granted  release  time  for  such  training  if  it  occurs  during  working  hours.  When  an 
employee  is  required  by  an  appropriate  administrator  to  take  work-related  training  during  non-working 
hours,  the  employee  shall  be  granted  overtime  pay  or  compensating  time  off  subject  to  Article  19, 
Overtime.  For  the  purposes  of  this  Article,  overtime  shall  include  authorized  time  spent  in  travel. 
Appropriate costs for such training shall be borne by the CSU. 
  

Employees  shall  be  provided  necessary  training  appropriate  to  any  newly  assigned  job  duties  or 

equipment as determined by the appropriate administrator. 
  
22.3  
  

Based on the operational needs of the campus and the requirements of the position, the appropriate 
administrator  may  approve  requests  for  participation  in  continuing  education  activities  necessary  to 
maintain licenses or certificates required by the State of California or other licensing agencies. 
  
Training Opportunities 
  
22.4  
  

An  eligible  employee  shall  be  granted  release  time  for  the  purpose  of  taking  examinations  to 

maintain a specialized license required by the CSU, except for a DMV Class C operator license. 
 
22.5  
  

A permanent employee may request at the Human Resources Office or be offered the opportunity 
for  a  temporary  assignment  in  a  higher  level  position  on  a  training  basis.  Such  requests  shall  follow 
procedures outlined in Provisions 22.18, 22.19, 22.20 and 22.23.  
  
22.6  
  

An  employee  serving  on  such  a  temporary  assignment  shall  be  compensated  as  provided  for  in 

Provision 17.3, Article 17, Assignment/Reassignment. 
  
22.7  
  

Upon request, an employee serving on such a temporary assignment shall be provided with a letter 
of verification of such service. A copy of such a verification letter shall be placed in the personnel file of 
the employee. 
  
22.8  
  

At  the  end  of  the  temporary  assignment,  the  employee  shall  be  returned  to  his/her  permanent 
assignment  with  the  same  status  as  he/she  would  have  had  if  he/she  had  not  been  granted  the  temporary 
assignment. 

  
Training Proposals 
  
22.9  
  

  
22.11  
  

Employees  or  the  Union  may  prepare  and  present  training  proposals  for  bargaining  unit 

employees. Such proposals may be submitted to the Human Resources Office. 
 
22.10  
  

The appropriate administrator(s) shall consider any training proposal(s). 

Upon  request  of  the  Union,  the  appropriate  administrator(s)  shall  meet  with  the  Union  and  a 
reasonable number of affected employees to discuss the training proposals. Such a meeting shall be held at 
a time and place mutually agreeable to the appropriate administrator and the Union. 
  
22.12  
  
      The appropriate administrator shall respond in writing to the Union regarding the training proposal. 
  
 Employee Development 
  
22.13  
  

An employee wishing to pursue educational goals may, with the guidance and support of his/her 
immediate non-bargaining unit supervisor and in consultation with the Human Resources Office, formally 
develop and obtain approval of a career development program. This program shall include attainment of a 
certificate,  an  associate  degree,  an  undergraduate  degree,  a  graduate  degree  or  other  achievement 
appropriate for the employee's professional growth. 
  
22.14  
  

Upon successful completion of the formally developed and approved career development program, 
the employee may request a temporary training assignment consistent with a logical evolution of the career 
development program and the goals, objectives and opportunities available at his/her current campus. 
  

a.  The  employee  request  shall  be  made  to  the  campus  Human  Resources  Office  no  later  than  one 
hundred  twenty  (120)  days  following  completion of the career development program. Only three 
(3) such request(s) may be made by an employee for a temporary training assignment and must be 
made within the time allotted. 

b.  The request(s) shall be in writing and shall include a detailed description of the type of temporary 
training assignment preferred, the objective of the training, and in which division/unit the training 
could be provided. 

c.  The employee shall provide a current, detailed resume. 

d.  The  employee  shall  provide,  in  writing,  a  detailed  description  of  the  new  skills,  abilities, 
knowledge and information which were obtained in the course of the career development program 
and explain how they relate to a requested temporary training assignment. 

 

 

 

  
22.15  
  

Within twenty-one (21) days after receipt of the written materials, a representative of the campus 
Human Resources Office shall contact the employee to schedule a meeting. At this meeting, the employee 
shall  discuss  his/her  request.  An  appropriate  administrator  in  the  Human  Resources  Office  will provide 
information to the employee, as appropriate, with respect to the requirements of positions contained in the 
CSU's  Classification  and  Qualification  Standards,  and  to  advise  the  employee  as  to  the  likelihood  of  a 
suitable position becoming available on campus. 
  
22.16  
  

The  granting  of  a  temporary  training  assignment  request  will  be  dependent  upon  the  campus' 
ability to arrange a training opportunity and, if applicable, provide coverage in the employee's work area 
while he/she is away. 
  
22.17  
  

Within  ninety  (90)  days  of  the  meeting,  the  appropriate  administrator  in  the  Human  Resources 
Office  shall  meet  with  the  employee  to  discuss  the  feasibility  of  arranging  a  training  assignment.  If 
arrangements  for  a  temporary  training  assignment  cannot  be  made within the ninety (90) day period, the 
appropriate  administrator  shall  continue  to  discuss  such  arrangements  with  campus  departments  and 
periodically inform the employee of his/her progress. 
  
22.18  
  

When  arrangements  for  a  temporary  training  assignment  are  completed,  the  appropriate 
administrator  in  the  Human  Resources  Office  shall  meet  again  with  the  employee  and  provide  written 
notice to the employee of the details of the temporary training assignment including, but not limited to: 
  

a.  notification of the duration and beginning and ending dates of the assignment; 

b. 

the location of the temporary assignment; 

c.  a position description outlining the major responsibilities of the temporary assignment; 

d. 

the salary assigned to the temporary assignment; 

e. 

f. 

the name and title of the immediate supervisor to whom the employee will be assigned during the 
temporary training assignment; and 

an outline of the training experience and the objectives and performance expectations developed 
for the training assignment. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
22.19  
  

The duration of the temporary training assignment shall be no less than three (3) months and no 

more than eleven (11) months. 
  
22.20  
  

The employee shall receive written evaluations of his/her work at least every two (2) months and 
at the conclusion of  the temporary training assignment. Copies of these evaluations shall be placed in the 
employee's personnel file. 
  
22.21  
  

At the end of the temporary training assignment, the employee shall be returned to his/her former 

position and at the former salary, in addition to any approved salary adjustments. 

  
22.22  
  

The  position  classification  of  the  temporary  training  assignment  shall  be  based  upon  a 
classification  review  of  the  temporary  training  assignment.  Appointment  to  a  temporary  training 
assignment shall be made at a salary at least equal to the employee's current salary, but no more than five 
percent (5%) above it. 
  
22.23  
  

Upon  successful  completion  of  a  temporary  training  assignment,  the  employee  may  request, 
according to procedures applicable at his/her campus, to be interviewed for announced vacancies whose job 
content is comparable to the temporary training assignment. Determination of comparability shall rest with 
the Human Resources Office. A request for an interview shall not be unreasonably denied. 
  
In-Classification/In-Range Progression 
  
22.24  
 

An  employee  seeking  a  temporary  training  assignment  for  the  purposes  of  attaining  additional 
skills for a specific classification or skill level may make a request in accordance with the provision of this 
Article. 
  
Fee Waiver 
  
22.25  
  

The  appropriate  administrator  shall  approve  requests  from  all  full-time  employees  and  part-time 
permanent  employees  for  enrollment  in  the  CSU  fee  waiver  program  subject  to  the  provisions  of  this 
Article. 
  
22.26  
  

A  maximum  of  two  (2)  courses  or  six  (6)  units,  whichever  is  greater,  per  semester/quarter 
(exclusive of courses in self-support programs) may be taken on the fee waiver program, provided that the 
CSU admission requirements shall be met, waived, or are non-applicable. Courses taken on the fee waiver 
program shall be taken for credit. 
  
22.27  
  

Fee  waiver  courses  shall  be  job-related  or  part  of  the  approved  Career  Development  Plan.  The 
course  of  study  for  a  Career  Development  Plan  will  be  established  by  the  employee and an appropriate 
advisor of choice and shall be subject to approval by the appropriate administrator in the Human Resources 
Office.  The  CSU  admission  requirements  shall  be  met  or  waived  for  an  approved  Career  Development 
Plan. The CSU admission requirements shall not apply for job-related courses. 
  
22.28  

  
Subject  to  conditions  listed  in  a.  and  b.  below,  an  employee  shall  be  granted  reasonable  release 
time  for  one  (1)  on-campus course per semester/quarter. An employee at the Chancellor's Office shall be 
granted an amount of time during working hours equal to actual class time. 
  

a.  The course shall be job-related or shall be part of an approved Career Development Plan. 

b.  The operational needs of the department are met as determined by the appropriate administrator. 

 

  

Employees on a leave of absence who otherwise are eligible to request a fee waiver may request 

fee waiver for enrollment in more than two (2) courses per semester/quarter. 
  
22.30  
  

In  order  for  an  employee  to  continue  participation  in  this  program,  normal  academic  standards 

shall be maintained. 
  
22.31  
  

A record of completed courses may be placed in the employee's official personnel file. 

The term "fee waiver" as used in this Article means a program that waives or reduces fees as listed 

The following fees shall be fully waived: 

Application Fee 
Student Service Fee 
Identification Card Fee 
Instructionally Related Activity Fee 

The following fees shall be reduced to one dollar ($1): 

Student Body Association Fee 
Student Union Fee 
Health Facilities Fee 

The  State  University  Fee  shall  be  waived  for  the  units  of  courses  taken  in  the  CSU  fee  waiver 

Employees  taking  courses  in  addition  to  the  CSU  fee  waiver  courses  shall  pay  any  difference 

22.29  
  

  
22.32  
  

below: 
  

  

  

  

  

program. 
  

  
22.34  

between the amount waived and the full State University Fee. 
  
Continuing Education - Unit 2 
  
22.33  
  

Continuing education training shall be required training of direct benefit to the campus. 

 
An  eligible  employee  may  request  approval  to  participate  in  continuing  education  activities  in 

accordance with campus procedures. 
  
22.35  
  

The  President  may  approve  requests  for  participation  in  continuing  education  activities  from 
eligible full-time employees for up to thirty-two (32) hours per calendar year. Employees working less than 
full-time  shall  be  eligible  for  continuing  education  on  a  pro  rata  share.  Such  requests  shall  not  be 
unreasonably denied. Any denial shall be within seven (7) days of the employee's written request. 

The  above  notwithstanding,  the  appropriate  administrator  may  grant  additional  release  time  for 

continuing education activities at the request of the employee. Such requests shall be carefully considered. 
  
22.36  
  

In  cases  where  a  total  of  thirty-two  (32)  hours  participation  in  required  continuing education 
activities are not approved by the President in a calendar year, presidential approval may be granted in the 
calendar year immediately following, for a maximum of forty-eight (48) hours, less any time approved in 
the preceding year. 
  
 22.37  
  

Approval for participation in continuing education programs and activities shall be based on the 

following considerations: 
  

a. 

staffing needs of the Student Health Center; 

b. 

reasonable  expectation  that  the  employee's  work  performance  or  value  to  the  campus will be 
enhanced as a result of his/her participation in the course of study; and 

c. 

requirements for continuing education. 

 

 

  
22.38  
  

The  CSU  recognizes  the  importance  of  procedures  for  the  protection  of  health  and  safety  of 
employees  and  shall  endeavor  to  maintain  such  conditions  conducive  to  the  health  and  safety  of  the 
employees.  In  the  event  of  earthquake,  other  natural  disasters,  or  a  state  of  emergency  declared  by  a 
President,  the  CSU  shall  endeavor  to  take  necessary  health  and  safety  measures  as  required.  At  an 
appropriate  time,  the  CSU  agrees  to  meet  with  the  Union  to  review  such  measures  taken  during  an 
earthquake or other natural disaster. 
  
23.2  
  

Safety  equipment  and  protective  safety  clothing  shall  be  provided  and  maintained,  when  it  is 
deemed necessary by the President to maintain safe and healthful conditions. Such equipment and clothing 
shall include, but shall not be limited to, safety glasses, ear plugs or other ear coverings, lab coats, smocks, 
and steel-toed boots and other protective footwear. 
  
23.3  
  

The request for approval to attend required continuing education activities shall be made at least 

fourteen (14) days prior to an employee's anticipated absence. 
  
22.39  
  

The President shall determine what costs, if any, shall be borne by the campus in connection with 
required  continuing  education  activities.  Time  as  provided  in  this  Article  spent  in  continuing  education 
activities during regularly scheduled work hours shall be counted as worktime. 

Attendance at continuing education activities outside of regular work hours shall not be supported 

by the CSU. 
                                    
ARTICLE 23 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
 
23.1  
  

An  employee  shall  endeavor  to  maintain  safe  working  conditions  and  shall  adhere  to  CSU 

established safety rules, regulations, and practices. 
  
23.4  
  

An employee who observes or detects any safety hazard shall report it first to his/her immediate 
supervisor or appropriate administrator as soon as possible, and may report it to the Environmental Health 
and Safety Officer. 
  
23.5  
  

Recommendations and suggestions regarding safety presented by an employee or the Union shall 
be considered. When such recommendations and suggestions are submitted to the appropriate administrator 
and  to  the  Environmental  Health  and Safety Officer in writing, the employee shall receive a response in 
writing giving the disposition of such a recommendation or suggestion. 
  
23.6  

  

When an employee in good faith believes that he/she is being required to work under unhealthy or 
unsafe  conditions,  he/she  shall  notify  the  appropriate  administrator.  The  appropriate  administrator  shall 
investigate  as  soon  as  possible  the  alleged  unhealthy  or  unsafe  conditions  and  shall  immediately 
communicate  with  the  employee  as  to  the  results  of  such  an  investigation and, if deemed necessary, the 
steps that shall be taken to correct the condition. 
  
23.7  

  
An  employee  may  request  a  temporary  reassignment  when  he/she  believes  in  good  faith  that 
his/her  present  assignment  presents  a  clear  danger  to  his/her  health  and  safety.  The  appropriate 
administrator  shall  promptly  respond  to  such  a  request.  Such  a  request  shall  not  be  unreasonably  denied 
during the preliminary aspect of any investigation. If such an unsafe or unhealthy condition is found during 
such  an  investigation, the temporary reassignment shall continue until a remedy is implemented. If, after 
the remedy is implemented, the employee still believes the unsafe or unhealthy condition exists, he/she may 
contact  the  Environmental  Health  and  Safety  Officer. The Environmental Health and Safety Officer shall 
respond to the employee as soon as possible. 
  
23.8  
  

One  campus  employee  from  bargaining  units  2,  5,  7,  and  9  shall  be  designated  by  CSEA  to 
represent  the  safety  interests  of  employees  in  these  bargaining units. The names of these individuals shall 
be  provided  in  writing  to  the  President.  Such  representation  shall  be  by  membership  on  the  existing 
campus-wide  safety  committee.  Such  a  representative  may  submit  agenda  items  related  to  health  and 
safety. Topics may include, but shall not be limited to, the use of video display terminals (VDTs) and other 
appropriate safety matters. This provision shall not preclude other bargaining unit employees from serving 
on  the  campus-wide  safety  committee  when  appointed  by  means  other  than  those  provided  in  this 
provision. Where there is no existing campus-wide safety committee, the designated unit representative(s) 
may meet with the Environmental Health and Safety Officer in order to address issues of health and safety 
affecting their units. 
  
23.9  
  

There  shall  be  a  campus  Plant  Operations  Safety  Committee  which  shall  meet  at  regularly 
scheduled times during normal business hours. A reasonable number of employee representatives appointed 
by the Union shall serve as committee members. Committee members may place items related to health and 
safety on the agenda for such committee meetings. Recommendations and suggestions regarding safety as 
submitted  in  accordance  with  Provision  23.5  are  appropriate  as  an  agenda  item  for  such  committee 
meetings. 

minimize illness or injury to employees. 
  
ARTICLE 24 
LAYOFF 
 
 Determination 
  
24.1  
  

or lack of funds, the following procedures shall apply. 
  
Union Notice 
  
24.2  
  

On a campus when the Employer determines that a layoff is necessary because of a lack of work 

  
23.10  
  

When  available,  upon  the  Union's  written  request,  the  Employer  shall  furnish  campus  disaster 
plans  and  the  Material  Safety  Data  Sheets  on  hazardous  substances  used  by  unit  employees.  Where 
available, other similar information, such as an Injury and Illness Prevention Program, shall be provided to 
the Union or an employee, upon written request and within the requirements of the law. 
  
23.11  
  

As  deemed  necessary  by  the  President,  the  CSU  shall  provide  safety  training  and  instruction to 

When the CSU determines that there is a need for implementation of any procedures outlined in 
this Article, the CSU agrees to immediately notify the Union. The Union may submit a written request to 
the Office of the Chancellor to meet and confer with the Union on the bargaining unit impact. 
  
Order of Layoff 
  
24.3  
  

Layoff  shall  be  within  classifications  determined  by  the  President.  For  classifications  with  skill 
levels,  layoff  shall  be  within  skill  level  determined  by  the  President.  Twelve (12) month, 11/12 month, 
10/12  month  and  academic  year  positions  with  the  same  class  title  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  layoff,  be 
considered a single classification. The order of layoff shall be: 
  

a. 

first, temporary and probationary employees; and 

 

  

b. 

last, permanent employees. 

Temporary  and  probationary  employees  in  a  classification  shall  be  separated  or  laid  off  before 
permanent  employees  in  the  same  classification.  Non-reappointment  of  a  temporary  employee  does  not 
constitute  a  layoff.  For  classifications  with  skill  levels,  temporary  and  probationary  employees  shall  be 
separated or laid off before permanent employees in the same skill level. 
  
Temporary and Probationary Employees 
  
24.4  
  

The  President  shall  establish  the  order  of  layoff  for  temporary  and probationary employees in a 

classification or in a skill level within a classification by considering only the following factors: 
  

a.  merit and competency in relation to program need; and 
 
b.  affirmative action needs of the campus. 

 
Permanent Employees 
  
24.5  
  

The  President  shall  establish  the  order  of  layoff  for  permanent  employees  in  a  classification  in 
reverse order of seniority. For employees in classifications with skill levels, the President shall establish the 
order of layoff for permanent employees in a skill level in reverse order of seniority. 
  
24.6  
  

An employee who possesses documentable specialized skills that are needed for the program, not 
possessed by other employees in classification(s), or skill levels within classifications, undergoing  layoff, 
may be excluded by the President from the layoff list. 
  
Computation of Seniority Points for Permanent Employees 
  
24.7  
  

All  seniority  points  calculated  for  and  earned  by  permanent  employees  prior  to  June  30,  1983, 
shall  remain  unchanged.  Such  seniority points shall serve as the base to which additional seniority points, 
computed for and earned pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, shall be added. Seniority points for each 
campus shall be calculated by the campus and provided to the Union by the Office of the Chancellor two 
(2)  times  per  year  upon  written  request  by  the  Union  and  when  the  CSU  determines  that  a  layoff  is 
necessary. 
  
24.8  
  

Full-time permanent employees shall earn one (1) seniority point of service credit in a given class, 
or  skill  level  within  a  class,  for  each  qualifying  month  of  employment.  Part-time  employees  holding 
permanent status shall earn seniority points proportional to the timebase served. 
  
24.9  
  

For  the  purpose  of  computing  permanent  employee  seniority  credit,  length  of  service  includes 
continuous time served as a temporary, probationary or permanent employee and is counted from the date 
of appointment to the current class held, or current skill level held within the classification, consistent with 
Provision 24.10 below, plus any service in all classes or skill levels of equal or higher rank on the campus, 
including  time  spent  in  non-CSEA  classifications,  which  has  not  been  interrupted  by  a  permanent 
separation. 
  
24.10  

  
Seniority  credit  is  counted  from  the  first  calendar  month  of  appointment  to  the  current 
classification, or skill level within a classification held, or upon the return from leave without pay status 
(when such leave does not count for seniority credit pursuant to Provision 24.12), if the appointment or 
return date is on or before the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of that month. Seniority credit is counted from 
the second calendar month of appointment to the current classification or skill level within a classification 
held, or upon the return from leave without pay status (when such leave does not count for seniority credit 
pursuant  to  Provision  24.12),  if  the  appointment  or  return  date  in  the  first  calendar  month  is  after  the 
fifteenth (15th) calendar day in that month. 
  
24.11  

  

Seniority credit upon separation from a classification, or from a skill level within a classification, 
or upon the commencement of leave without pay status (when such leave does not count for seniority credit 
pursuant to Provision 24.12), shall terminate effective the end of the calendar month preceding the date of 
separation or leave if the date of separation is on or before the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the month of 
separation.  Seniority  credit  upon  separation  from  a  classification,  or  from  a  skill  level  within  a 
classification, or upon the commencement of leave without pay status (when such leave does not count for 
seniority credit pursuant to Provision 24.12), shall extend until the end of the calendar month of separation 
or leave if the date of separation is after the fifteenth (15th) calendar day of the month of separation. 
  
24.12  
  

All  time  spent  in  family  care,  military,  disability,  loan  of  an  employee  to  another  governmental 
agency  or  leave  with  pay  status  shall  count  toward  the  accumulation  of  seniority  points. All other time 
spent in leave without pay status, as well as periods of suspension without pay, shall not count toward the 
accumulation of seniority points, however, such time shall not constitute a break in continuous service. 
  
24.13  
  

For all permanent ten (10) month employees, one (1) point shall be credited for each month of the 
ten (10) months of employment. Those full-time, permanent employees participating in the 10/12, 11/12 or 
academic pay plan shall receive one (1) point of credited service for each of the twelve (12) months. 
  
24.14  
  

In no case shall a permanent employee earn more than twelve (12) seniority points per year. 

  
24.15  
  

In the event a class is abolished or the use of the class restricted and a new class established in its 

place, all time served in the prior comparable class shall be counted as service in the new class. 
  
24.16  
  

The term "class of equal rank" as used in this Article shall mean a class, or skill level within a 
class, which has a maximum salary of not more than one-half (1/2) step or approximately two and one-half 
percent (2 1/2%) above or below the maximum salary of the employee's current class, or skill level within a 
class. 
  
24.17  

  
The term "class of higher rank" as used in this Article shall mean a class, or skill level within a 
class,  which  has  a  maximum  salary  of  more  than  one-half  (1/2)  step  or  approximately  two  and  one-half 
percent (2 1/2%) above the maximum salary of the employee's current class, or skill level within a class. 
  
Tie-Breaking in the Order of Layoff 
  
24.18  
  

A tie exists when two (2) or more permanent employees in a classification, or skill level within a 

classification, undergoing layoff have the same number of seniority points. 
  
24.19  
  

The  President  shall  break  ties  in  establishing  the  layoff  order  of  permanent  employees  by 

considering only the following factors: 

  

 

 

a. 

specialized skills and competencies of the employee; 

b.  documented meritorious service by the employee; and 

c.  affirmative action needs of the campus. 

  
Employee Notice of Layoff 
  
24.20  
  

A  temporary  or  probationary  employee  who  is  to  be  laid  off  shall  receive  notice  of  such  layoff 

from the President no later than forty-five (45) days before the effective date of layoff. 
  
24.21  
  

A permanent employee who is to be laid off shall receive notice of such layoff from the President 
no later than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of layoff. Such notice shall be in writing and mailed 
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the employee's last known address. 
  
Employee Options in Lieu of Layoff 
  
24.22  
  

A  permanent  employee  who  has  received  a  notice  of  layoff  may  exercise  his/her  right  to  elect 
transfer to any vacancy for which he/she is currently qualified. Such qualification shall be determined in the 
normal  manner.  When  two  (2)  or  more  such  permanent  employees  elect  transfer  to  the  same  vacancy  in 
accordance  with  this  provision,  the  President  may  select  the  employee  to  be  transferred  on  the  basis  of 
merit. 
  
24.23  

  

      A permanent or probationary employee who has received a notice of layoff may elect to be transferred 
or  demoted  to  any  classification,  or  skill  level  within  a  classification,  in  which  he/she  has  served  as  a 
permanent employee during the period preceding the layoff, provided there has been no break in service. 
  
24.24  

  
A  permanent  employee  at  the  Chancellor's  Office  who  has  received  a  layoff  notice  shall  have 
retreat rights to his/her former campus if he/she had gained permanency at that campus. Such retreat rights 
exist only if the employee's appointment at the Chancellor's Office was immediately after separation from 
the campus. 
  
24.25  
  

If an employee elects a demotion in lieu of layoff, his/her salary shall be red circled in accordance 

with the red circle rate provisions in Article 20, Salary. 
  
24.26  
  

In order to elect the options in Provisions 24.22-24.25 above, an employee must notify the campus 
Human  Resources  Office  in  writing  of  his/her  election  not  later  than  thirty  (30)  days  after  receiving  the 
notice of layoff. 
  
24.27  
  

An  employee replaced by the demotion or transfer of an employee who has received a notice of 

layoff shall have the same rights as outlined in Provisions 24.22-24.25 above of this Article. 
  
Reemployment Rights/Opportunities 
  
24.28  
  

The  President  shall  enter  the  names  of  laid-off permanent employees on a reemployment list by 
class, or by skill level within a classification, in order of seniority. An employee's name shall remain on the 
reemployment list until he/she returns to a position in the same class, or skill level within a classification, 
held at the time of layoff and at the same timebase as previously held. In no case shall a name remain on 
the reemployment list for more than five (5) years. 
  
24.29  
  

Position  vacancies  in  a  class,  or  skill  level  within a classification, for which there are names of 
qualified  individuals  on  the  reemployment  list  shall  not  be  filled  without  first  making  an  offer  of 
reemployment to those on this list. If an individual on the reemployment list declines two (2) such offers, 
he/she  waives  his/her  reemployment  rights.  An  individual  on  a  reemployment  list  may  request  inactive 
status for up to one (1) year. 
  
24.30  
  

An employee reemployed under the conditions of this Article shall retain permanent status rights, 
service  credit  (subject  to  Public  Employees'  Retirement  System  (PERS)  regulations),  salary  steps,  sick 
leave, and seniority credits he/she held at the date of layoff. 
  
24.31  
  

The CSU shall provide a job clearinghouse to advise and inform employees in classifications,  or 

skill levels within classifications, undergoing layoff of employment opportunities at other campuses. 

The  services  of  the  clearinghouse  shall  be  available  upon  request  to  permanent  employees  in 
receipt of notice of layoff or former permanent employees on a reemployment list. A campus may not fill a 
vacancy without ascertaining whether such an employee or former employee has applied. 

If such an employee has applied for a vacancy, his/her application shall be considered. 

At least sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of a layoff, the President shall make available 

  
Voluntary Programs to Avoid Layoff 
 
24.32  
  

voluntary programs to avoid layoff. 
  
24.33  
  

Such programs shall include, but shall not be limited to: 

a.  a voluntary reduced worktime program; 
A  voluntary  reduced  worktime  program  may  reduce  the  time  worked  by  an  employee  within  the 
workweek or within the workyear. The 10/12 or 11/12 pay plan as provided for in this Agreement shall 
be considered a voluntary reduced worktime program. Prior to a  layoff, the President shall extend the 
provisions  of  the  10/12  or  11/12  pay  plan  (Article  20,  Salary,  Provisions  20.12  through  20.22)  to 
employees in classifications undergoing layoff and may extend the provisions of the 10/12 or 11/12 
pay plan to employees in classifications not otherwise eligible. 

  

  

  
ARTICLE 25 
DURATION AND IMPLEMENTATION 
  
25.1  

Except as provided below, this Agreement shall become effective on July 1, 1999, provided that 
ratification  is  accomplished  by  both  parties  on  or  before  September  8,  1999,  at  the  Board  of  Trustees 
meeting and shall remain in effect up to and including June 30, 2001. 
  
25.2  
  

The provisions of Article 20, Salary, shall be implemented as indicated in that article.  

b. 

leaves of absence without pay in accordance with Article 16, Leaves of Absence Without Pay, of 
this Agreement. 

  
25.3  
  

Negotiations for a successor agreement shall commence when one of the parties delivers to the 
other its proposals in writing no earlier than December 1 and no later than January 1 immediately preceding 
the expiration date of this Agreement. 
  
 25.4  
  

For fiscal year 2000/2001 either party may reopen for the purpose of negotiations, subject to the 
public  notice  provisions  of  HEERA,  Article  20,  Salary,  and/or  Article  21,  Benefits.  The  party seeking to 
reopen either Article referred to herein must deliver to the other party its proposals in writing no earlier 
than  December  1  and  no  later  than  January  l  in  the  fiscal  year  in  which  negotiation  of  the  article(s)  is 
desired. 
  
25.5  
  

Any term of this Agreement which is deemed by the Employer to carry an economic cost shall not 
be  implemented  until  the  Employer  determines  that  the  amount  required  therefore  has  been  appropriated 
and  makes  such  amount  available  for  expenditure  for  such  purpose.  If the Employer determines that less 
than  the  amount  needed  to  implement  this  Agreement,  or  any  provision  herein,  has  been  appropriated  to 
implement this Agreement or any provision herein, the term(s) of this Agreement deemed by the CSU to 
carry economic cost shall automatically be subject to the meet and confer process. 
  
Unit Salary Schedules  

ARTICLE A 
INCLUDED CLASSIFICATIONS 
  
 Unit 2 
  
 Class 
 Code Classification Title 
  
 1140 Health Record Technician 
 7926 Clinical Laboratory Technologist II 
 7927 Clinical Laboratory Technologist I 
 7976 Speech Pathologist 
 7980 Physical Therapist I 
 7981 Physical Therapist II 
 7988 Radiation Protection Specialist 
 7991 Pharmacist - 10-month 
 7992 Pharmacist - 12-month 
 7995 Radiologic Technologist I 
 7996 Radiologic Technologist II 
 8005 Sanitarian II 
 8130 Nutritionist 
 8134 Licensed Vocational Nurse 
 8135 Clinical Aid I 
 8136 Clinical Aid II 
 8145 Health Education Assistant 
 8147 Health Educator 
 8150 Registered Nurse I - 10-month 
 8151 Registered Nurse I - 12-month 
 8153 Registered Nurse II - 10-month 
 8154 Registered Nurse II - 12-month 
 8156 Registered Nurse III - 10-month 
 8157 Registered Nurse III - 12-month 
 8165 Nurse Practitioner - 10-month 
 8166 Nurse Practitioner - 12-month 
  
 Unit 5 
  
 Class 
 Code Classification Title 
  
 0104 Maintenance and Laborer Trainee 
 0304 Cook I 
 0305 Cook II 
 0306 Cook I - Lead 
 0307 Cook II - Lead 
 0308 Food Service Worker I 
 0309 Food Service Worker II 
 0310 Food Service Worker I - Lead 
 0311 Food Service Worker II - Lead 
 0726 Lead Groundsworker 
 0731 Groundsworker 
 0733 Groundsworker Trainee 
 0735 Irrigation Specialist 
 0739 Pest Control and Spray Specialist 
 0743 Gardener 
 0745 Gardening Specialist 

 0746 Tree Trimmer I 
 0748 Tree Trimmer II 
 1508 Warehouse Worker 
 2010 Custodian 
 2013 Window Cleaner 
 2015 Lead Custodian 
 6223 Laborer 
 6363 Light Automotive Equipment Operator 
 6366 Heavy Equipment Operator/Bus Driver 
 6367 Heavy Construction Equipment Operator 
 6385 Farm Maintenance and Operations Worker 
  
 Unit 7 
  
 Class 
 Code Classification Title 
  
 1030 Administrative Support Assistant 10/12 
 1031 Administrative Support Assistant 11/12 
 1032 Administrative Support Assistant 12 month 
 1033 Administrative Support Coordinator 10/12 
 1034 Administrative Support Coordinator 11/12 
 1035 Administrative Support Coordinator 12 month 
 1099 Payroll Technician Trainee 
 1100 Payroll Technician I 
 1101 Payroll Technician II 
 1102 Payroll Technician III 
 1120 Clerical Trainee 
 1135 Purchasing Agent 
 1142 Medical Secretary 
 1144 Medical Transcriber 
 1160 Editorial Aid 
 1408 Power Keyboard Operator Trainee 
 1409 Power Keyboard Operator 
 1413 Graphics Specialist I 
 1414 Graphics Specialist II, Graphics Art/Technical 
 1415 Lead Graphics Specialist 
 1416 Senior Data Entry Operator 
 1418 Data Entry Operator 
 1421 Data Entry Operator Trainee 
 1424 Micrographics Technician Trainee 
 1426 Micrographics Technician 
 1428 Supervising Micrographics Technician I 
 1430 Supervising Micrographics Technician II 
 1450 Duplicating Machine Operator I 
 1464 Duplicating Machine Supervisor I 
 1466 Duplicating Machine Operator II, Offset 
 1467 Duplicating Machine Operator II, Direct Impression 
 1471 Reproduction Processes Supervisor I 
 1472 Reproduction Processes Assistant 
 1502 Shipping & Receiving Assistant I 
 1504 Mail Services Supervisor I 
 1505 Mail Clerk 
 1506 Storekeeper I 
 1509 Stock Clerk 
 1549 Property Clerk II 

 1550 Property Clerk I 
 1553 Inventory Clerk 
 1628 Supervising Telephone Operator 
 1635 Telephone Operator 
 1690 Senior Cashier-Clerk 
 1693 Assistant Cashier-Clerk 
 1727 Supervising Account Clerk I 
 1730 Accounting Technician I 
 1733 Accounting Clerk 
 1740 Accounting Technician III 
 1741 Accounting Technician II 
 1757 Collections Representative Trainee 
 1758 Collections Representative I 
 1759 Collections Representative II 
 1927 Data Control Technician 
 1928 Senior Data Control Technician 
 2898 Book Repairer II 
 2899 Book Repairer I 
 2904 Library Assistant Trainee 
 2905 Library Assistant II 
 2906 Library Assistant I 
 2907 Library Assistant III 
 2908 Library Assistant IV 
 2935 Slide Curator I 
 2936 Slide Curator II 
 3022 Drafting Aid 
 3023 Drafting Technician I 
 3024 Drafting Technician II 
 4783 Procurement Assistant 
 4790 Buyer Trainee 
 4791 Buyer I 
 4792 Buyer II 
 4793 Buyer II - Lead 
 4794 Buyer III 
 4795 Buyer III - Lead 
 5210 Health Services Assistant 
 8341 Parking Garage Supervisor 
 8349 Public Safety Dispatcher 
 8351 Parking Officer 
 8352 Campus Guard 
 8353 Supervising Parking Officer 
 9687 Head Resident II 
 9688 Head Resident I 
 9692 Dormitory Supervisor 
  
  
 Unit 9 
  
 Class 
 Code Classification Title 
  
 0300 CMA Staff Services Analyst 
 0301 CMA Associate Personnel Analyst 
 0302 CMA Student Affairs Officer I 
 0303 CMA Student Affairs Officer II 
 0400 Analyst/Programmer 12 month 

 0401 Analyst Programmer 11/12 
 0402 Analyst/Programmer 10/12 
 0410 Operating Systems Analyst 12 month 
 0411 Operating Systems Analyst 11/12 
 0412 Operating Systems Analyst 10/12 
 0420 Information Technology Consultant 12 month 
 0421 Information Technology Consultant 11/12 
 0422 Information Technology Consultant 10/12 
 0430 Network Analyst 12 month 
 0431 Network Analyst 11/12 
 0432 Network Analyst 10/12 
 0440 Equipment/Systems Specialist 12 month 
 0441 Equipment/Systems Specialist 11/12 
 0442 Equipment/Systems Specialist 10/12 
 0450 Operations Specialist 12 month 
 0451 Operations Specialist 11/12 
 0452 Operations Specialist 10/12 
 0627 Farm Supervisor I 
 0638 Farm Laborer 
 0648 Crop Technician I 
 0651 Crop Technician II 
 0663 Livestock Technician I 
 0666 Livestock Technician II 
 0670 Animal Health Technician 
 0687 Feed Mill Operator 
 0697 Poultry Technician 
 0703 Nursery Technician II 
 0706 Nursery Technician I 
 1036 Administrative Analyst/Specialist 10/12 
 1037 Administrative Analyst/Specialist 11/12 
 1038 Administrative Analyst/Specialist 12 month 
 1513 Athletic Equipment Attendant II 
 1514 Athletic Equipment Attendant I 
 1521 Technician Trainee 
 1577 Instructional Support Assistant I 
 1578 Instructional Support Assistant II 
 1579 Instructional Support Assistant III 
 1615 Instructional Support Technician I 
 1617 Instructional Support Technician II 
 1619 Instructional Support Technician III 
 1762 Accountant I 
 2572 Space and Facilities Utilization Officer 
 2844 Photographer II 
 2845 Photographer I 
 2866 Accompanist II 
 2867 Accompanist I 
 2929 Graphic Artist I 
 2930 Graphic Artist II 
 3801 Radiation Safety Officer 
 3810 Library Serials Editor 
 4555 Accountant II 
 5151 Personnel Assistant 
 5250 Special Assistant, EOP 
 5255 Administrative Trainee 
 5284 Associate Budget Analyst 
 5287 Assistant Budget Analyst 

 5330 Federal Programs Coordinator 
 5597 Public Affairs Assistant I 
 5598 Public Affairs Assistant II 
 5680 Research Technician III 
 5681 Research Technician II 
 5683 Research Technician I 
 5783 Associate, Academic and Institutional Studies II 
 5784 Associate, Academic and Institutional Studies I 
 5787 Associate, Academic and Institutional Studies III 
 6507 Stage Technician II 
 6508 Stage Technician I 
 6514 Costume Technician I 
 6515 Costume Technician II 
 6725 Senior Planner/Estimator/Scheduler 
 6726 Planner/Estimator/Scheduler 
 6918 Television Engineer 
 6950 Piano Technician I 
 6951 Piano Technician II 
 6960 Fish Hatchery Manager 
 6970 Diving Safety Officer 
 7000 Equipment Maintenance Assistant 
 7001 Equipment Technician I, Mechanical 
 7002 Equipment Technician I, Electro-Mechanical 
 7003 Equipment Technician I, Electronic 
 7004 Equipment Technician I, Specialized Equipment 
 7011 Equipment Technician II, Mechanical 
 7012 Equipment Technician II, Electro-Mechanical 
 7013 Equipment Technician II, Electronic 
 7014 Equipment Technician II, Specialized Equipment 
 7021 Equipment Technician III, Mechanical 
 7022 Equipment Technician III, Electro-Mechanical 
 7023 Equipment Technician III, Electronic 
 7024 Equipment Technician III, Specialized Equipment 
 7125 Media Production Specialist I 
 7126 Media Production Specialist II 
 7127 Media Production Specialist III 
 7165 Interpreter/Transliterator I AY 
 7166 Interpreter/Transliterator II AY 
 7167 Lead Interpreter/Transliterator AY 
 7168 Lead Interpreter/Transliterator 
 7169 Interpreter/Transliterator II 
 7170 Interpreter/Transliterator I 
 7512 Glassblower 
 7879 Laboratory Assistant II 
 7888 Laboratory Assistant I 
 8980 Campus Fire Apparatus Engineer 
 8981 Supervising Campus Fire Apparatus Engineer 
  
ARTICLE B 
LIST OF PER DIEM EMPLOYEES 
  
 (See Article 2, Provision 2.10(f). for the definition of per diem employees) 
  
  
 Bargaining Unit 2 
  

 7926 Clinical Laboratory Technician II 
 7927 Clinical Laboratory Technician I 
 7976 Speech Pathologist 
 7991 Pharmacist - 10 month 
 7992 Pharmacist - 12 month 
 7995 Radiological Technologist I 
 7996 Radiological Technologist II 
 8130 Nutritionist 
 8134 Licensed Vocational Nurse 
 8150 Registered Nurse I - 10 month 
 8151 Registered Nurse I - 12 month 
 8153 Registered Nurse II - 10 month 
 8154 Registered Nurse II - 12 month 
 8156 Registered Nurse III - 10 month 
 8157 Registered Nurse III - 12 month 
 8165 Nurse Practitioner - 10 month 
 8166 Nurse Practitioner - 12 month 
  
 Bargaining Unit 9 
  
 7169 Interpreter/Transliterator I 
 7170 Interpreter/Transliterator II 
  
ARTICLE C 
OVERTIME/SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL 
  
 Definitions: 
  
I. 

  

  

  

  

  

 

Employees  will  be  classified  as  either  exempt  or  non-exempt,  based  on  the  duties  and 
responsibilities of the positions. 

A.  Exempt employees are salaried employees who meet one of the exemptions (administrative, 
executive,  professional  or  agricultural)  from  the  overtime  provisions  of  the  Fair  Labor 
Standards  Act  (FLSA).  Exempt  employees,  unless  they  are  classified  as  exempt  under  the 
agricultural  exemption  or  are  firefighters,  do  not  earn  overtime,  either  as  cash  or 
compensatory time off (CTO). 

B.  Employees in exempt classifications may be appointed to 12-month, 10-month, 10/12, 11/12, 

or academic year assignments. 

C.  Exceptions: 

Employees  in  the  following  exempt  classifications  have  a  workweek  which  consists  of  an 
average of 72 hours per week, including work time, standby time, and on-call time. Hours in 
excess of 312 in a month are compensated at time and one-half and are compensable in cash 
or CTO. 

8980 Campus Fire Apparatus Engineer 
8981 Supervising Campus Fire Apparatus Engineer 

Employees  in  the  following  exempt  classifications  meet  the  definition  of  exempt  under  the 
agricultural exemption of the FLSA and may earn CTO at the rate of time and one-half the 
hourly rate. Employees in these classifications, having earned more than 120 hours at the end 
of the calendar year, must be paid in cash by February 1 of the following year. 

0638 Farm Laborer 
0648 Crop Technician I 

0651 Crop Technician II 
0663 Livestock Technician I 
0666 Livestock Technician II 
0687 Feed Mill Operator 
6385 Farm Maintenance and Operations Worker 

Non-exempt employees are salaried employees who do not meet any of the exemptions from the 
overtime provisions of the FLSA. Employees in non-exempt classifications may be appointed to 
12-month,  10-month,  10/12,  11/12,  or  academic  year  assignments.  The  full-time workweek for 
non-exempt  classifications  is  a  workweek  of  forty  (40)  hours  within  seven  (7)  consecutive  24-
hour days or 168 consecutive hours. 

A.  Overtime  for  non-exempt  employees  is  payable  in  cash  or  as  CTO  at  the  rate  of  time  and 
one-half  the  hourly  rate.  Employees  in  Units  2,  5,  7  and  9,  having  earned  more  than  120 
hours at the end of the calendar year, must be paid in cash by February 1 of the following 
year except as noted below. Paid leave is counted as time worked in determining overtime 
hours worked. 

B.  For the following classifications, earned CTO greater than 240 hours must be paid in cash in 

the pay period it was earned: 

9688 Head Resident I 
9687 Head Resident II 

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL.  
The following classifications are eligible to receive shift differential. No other classifications may 
receive shift differential. 

Unit 2 

7926 Clinical Laboratory Technologist II 
7927 Clinical Laboratory Technologist I 
7995 Radiologic Technologist I 
7996 Radiologic Technologist II 
8134 Licensed Vocational Nurse 
8135 Clinical Aid I 
8136 Clinical Aid II 
8150 Registered Nurse I -10 Month 
8151 Registered Nurse I - 12 Month 
8153 Registered Nurse II - 10 Month 
8154 Registered Nurse II -12 Month 

Unit 5 

0104 Maintenance and Laborer Trainee 
0731 Groundsworker 
0733 Groundsworker Trainee 
1508 Warehouse Worker 
2010 Custodian 
2013 Window Cleaner 
2015 Lead Custodian 
6223 Laborer 
6363 Light Automotive Equipment Operator 
6366 Heavy Equipment Operator/Bus Driver 

Unit 7 

  
II. 

  

  

 

  
III. 

  

  

  

  

  

  
      1030 Administrative Support Assistant - 10/12 
      1031 Administrative Support Assistant - 11/12 
      1032 Administrative Support Assistant - 12 month 
      1033 Administrative Support Coordinator - 10/12 
      1034 Administrative Support Coordinator - 11/12 
      1035 Administrative Support Coordinator - 12 month 
      1120 Clerical Trainee 
      1408 Power Keyboard Operator Trainee 
      1409 Power Keyboard Operator 
      1413 Graphics Specialist I 
      1414 Graphics Specialist II, Graphics Art/Technical 
      1415 Lead Graphics Specialist 
      1416 Senior Data Entry Operator 
      1418 Data Entry Operator 
      1421 Data Entry Operator Trainee 
      1424 Micrographics Technician Trainee 
      1426 Micrographics Technician 
      1428 Supervising Micrographics Technician I 
      1430 Supervising Micrographics Technician II 
      1466 Duplicating Machine Operator II, Offset 
      1471 Reproduction Processes Supervisor 
      1472 Reproduction Processes Assistant 
      1506 Storekeeper I 
      1509 Stock Clerk 
      1553 Inventory Clerk 
      1628 Supervising Telephone Operator 
      1635 Telephone Operator 
      1730 Accounting Technician I 
      1733 Accounting Clerk 
      1927 Data Control Technician 
      1928 Senior Data Control Technician 
      2904 Library Assistant Trainee 
      2905 Library Assistant II 
      2906 Library Assistant I 
      2907 Library Assistant III 
      2908 Library Assistant IV 
      8341 Parking Garage Supervisor 
      8351 Parking Officer 
      8349 Public Safety Dispatcher 
      8352 Campus Guard 
      8353 Supervising Parking Officer 
  
      Unit 9 
  
      0400 Analyst/Programmer - 12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0401 Analyst/Programmer - 11/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0402 Analyst/Programmer - 10/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0410 Operating Systems Analyst - 12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0411 Operating Systems Analyst - 11/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0412 Operating Systems Analyst - 10/12 Month 

      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0420 Information Technology Consultant - 12 Month 
      Range 1 – Foundation 
      0421 Information Technology Consultant - 11/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0422 Information Technology Consultant - 10/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0430 Network Analyst - 12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0431 Network Analyst - 11/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0432 Network Analyst - 10/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      0440 Equipment/Systems Specialist - 12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0441 Equipment/Systems Specialist - 11/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0442 Equipment/Systems Specialist - 10/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0450 Operations Specialist - 12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0451 Operations Specialist - 11/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0452 Operations Specialist - 10/12 Month 
      Range 1 - Foundation 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0648 Crop Technician I 
      0651 Crop Technician II 
      0670 Animal Health Technician 
      0697 Poultry Technician 
      0706 Nursery Technician I 
      0703 Nursery Technician II 
      1513 Athletic Equipment Attendant II 
      1514 Athletic Equipment Attendant I 
      1521 Technician Trainee 
      1577 Instructional Support Assistant I 
      1578 Instructional Support Assistant II 
      1579 Instructional Support Assistant III 
      1615 Instructional Support Technician I 
      1617 Instructional Support Technician II 
      1762 Accountant I 
      5287 Assistant Budget Analyst 
      5597 Public Affairs Assistant I 
      6507 Stage Technician II 
      6508 Stage Technician I 

OVERTIME. Those classifications listed below are exempt. All other existing classifications are 
non-exempt. Employees in classifications designated as exempt do not earn overtime. 

      6514 Costume Technician I 
      6515 Costume Technician II 
      6726 Planner/Estimator/Scheduler 
      7000 Equipment Maintenance Assistant 
      7001 Equipment Technician I, Mechanical 
      7002 Equipment Technician I, Electro-Mechanical 
      7003 Equipment Technician I, Electronic 
      7004 Equipment Technician I, Specialized Equipment 
      7011 Equipment Technician II, Mechanical 
      7012 Equipment Technician II, Electro-Mechanical 
      7013 Equipment Technician II, Electronic 
      7014 Equipment Technician II, Specialized Equipment 
  
IV. 

  
      Unit 2 
  
      7976 Speech Pathologist 
      7988 Radiation Protection Specialist 
      7991 Pharmacist - 10 Month 
      7992 Pharmacist - 12 Month 
      8005 Sanitarian II 
      8130 Nutritionist 
      8147 Health Educator 
      8156 Registered Nurse III - 10 Month 
      8157 Registered Nurse III - 12 Month 
      8165 Nurse Practitioner - 10 Month 
      8166 Nurse Practitioner - 12 Month 
  
      Unit 5 
  

All existing classifications in this unit are non-exempt and earn overtime at the rate of one and 
one-half times the hourly straight time rate, with the exception of the Farm Maintenance and Operations 
Worker (6385). The Farm Maintenance and Operations Worker classification is exempt under the 
agricultural exemption of the FLSA and may earn overtime or CTO as defined in Section I. C. above. 
  
      Unit 7 
  

All existing classifications in this unit are non-exempt and earn overtime or CTO at the rate of one 

and one-half times the hourly straight time rate. 
  
      Unit 9 
  
      0400 Analyst/Programmer - 12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0401 Analyst/Programmer - 11/12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0402 Analyst/Programmer - 10/12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0410 Operating Systems Analyst - 12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 

      0411 Operating Systems Analyst - 11/12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0412 Operating Systems Analyst - 10/12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0420 Information Technology Consultant - 12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0421 Information Technology Consultant - 11/12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0422 Information Technology Consultant - 10/12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0430 Network Analyst - 12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0431 Network Analyst - 11/12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0432 Network Analyst - 10/12 Month* 
      Range 2 - Career 
      Range 3 - Expert 
      0627 Farm Supervisor I 
      0638 Farm Laborer 
      0648 Crop Technician I 
      0651 Crop Technician II 
      0663 Livestock Technician I 
      0666 Livestock Technician II 
      0687 Feed Mill Operator 
      2572 Space and Facilities Utilization Officer 
      3801 Radiation Safety Officer 
      3810 Library Serials Editor 
      4555 Accountant II 
      5250 Special Assistant, EOP 
      5284 Associate Budget Analyst 
      5330 Federal Programs Coordinator 
      5598 Public Affairs Assistant II 
      5680 Research Technician III 
      5783 Associate, Academic & Institutional Studies II 
      5784 Associate, Academic & Institutional Studies I 
      5787 Associate, Academic & Institutional Studies III 
      6725 Senior Planner/Estimator/Scheduler 
      6918 Television Engineer 
      6960 Fish Hatchery Manager 
      6970 Diving Safety Officer 
      7127 Media Production Specialist III 
      8980 Campus Fire Apparatus Engineer 
      8981 Supervising Campus Fire Apparatus Engineer 
  
ARTICLE D 
SUPERSESSION 
 

If the provisions of any of the following code sections are in conflict with the provisions of the 

Memorandum of Understanding, the provisions of the MOU shall be controlling. 

 
 
APPENDIX F 
MARKET EQUITY AGREEMENT 
  
June 28, 2000 
  

 

For fiscal year 2000/2001 and in accordance with Provision 20.6 of Article 20, and in recognition 

of current market conditions, individual salary rates and/or salary range s of the bargaining unit 
classifications identified in the attached worksheet, shall be increased effective July 1, 2000 according to 
the following provisions. 
  

1.  Both the salary range minimums and maximums and individual employee salary rates, except 

as indicated in the footnote below, shall be adjusted by the proposed equity increase 
percentage amount for the following classifications: 

  

 

  
      * This classification was not populated at the time of the Tentative Agreement so no 
      individual employee salary rates will be increased. 
  

 

Both the salary range minimums and maximums and individual employee salary rates shall be 

adjusted by the proposed equity increase percentage amount for the following classifications: 
  

  

Both the salary range minimums and maximums and individual employee salary rates shall be 

adjusted by the proposed equity increase percentage amount for the following classifications: 
  

 

2.  For the following classifications, the salary range minimums and the individual employee 
salary rates shall be adjusted by the proposed equity increase percentage amount, except as 
indicated in the footnote below. In addition, the salary range maximums shall be increased by 
fifteen percent (15%). 

  
  

  
          

  

 

3.  Market equity increases resulting from the Public Safety Support and Public Affairs, 

Media/Arts classification studies shall be adjusted by the proposed equity increase percentage 
amount for the classifications listed below. The increases will be to the salary range 
minimums, maximums and individual employee salary rates, except as indicated in the 
footnote below. These increases will be effective July 1, 2000 and the new classifications and 
their adjusted salary ranges will be implemented effective December 1, 2000. 

  
                                          

  
 * These classifications were not populated at the time of the Tentative Agreement so no individual 
employee salary rates will be increased. 
 
APPENDIX G 
  

 

Memorandum of Understanding between the California State University (CSU) and the California 
State Employees Association (CSEA) for the Implementation of The Public Safety Support Classifications 
and the Public Affairs/Media/Arts Classifications. 
  

This Memorandum of Understanding constitutes the entire agreement between The California 

State University (CSU) and the California State Employees Association (CSEA), and satisfies all 
bargaining obligations resulting from meeting and conferring pursuant to HEERA and Article 17 of the 
parties Collective Bargaining Agreement on the issue of the impact of the implementation of Public Safety 
Support classifications, Public Affairs/Media/Arts classifications. 
  

The parties agree that the new Public Safety Support classifications, and the new Public 

Affairs/Media/Arts classifications, shall be implemented according to the conversion road map as identified 
in Appendices A, and B, and C. The classifications of employees shall be converted from those listed in the 

"Current Classifications" column to those listed in the "New Classification/Level" column.  There shall be 
no increase in salary for any employee as a result of the conversion of his/her existing classification to the 
listed classification identified in the road map conversion. Therefore, the implementation of the Public 
Safety Support classifications, and the Public Affairs/Media/arts classifications, shall result in no costs to 
the Employer. The time line requirements in provision 17.7 for employee requested position descriptions 
do not apply to this conversion. These new classifications and their adjusted salary ranges will be 
implemented effective December 1, 2000. 

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R02

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

8135

CLINICAL AID I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

8136

7927

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CLINICAL AID II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CLINICAL LABORATORY TECHNOLOGIST I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,865
22,380

1,710
20,520

1,554
18,648

1,937
23,244

1,776
21,312

1,614
19,368

3,386
40,632

3,104
37,248

2,822
33,864

Service

Max

2,197
26,364

2,014
24,168

1,831
21,972

2,282
27,384

2,092
25,104

1,902
22,824

3,891
46,692

3,567
42,804

3,243
38,916

Max

2,417
29,004

2,216
26,592

2,014
24,168

2,511
30,132

2,302
27,624

2,093
25,116

4,281
51,372

3,924
47,088

3,568
42,816

N

Y

Y

Y

I-2

T2A

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

I-2

T2A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 1

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R02

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7926

CLINICAL LABORATORY TECHNOLOGIST II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

8145

8147

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANT

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

HEALTH EDUCATOR

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,546
42,552

3,251
39,012

2,955
35,460

2,750
33,000

2,521
30,252

2,292
27,504

3,013
36,156

2,762
33,144

2,511
30,132

Service

Max

4,271
51,252

3,915
46,980

3,559
42,708

3,305
39,660

3,030
36,360

2,754
33,048

3,626
43,512

3,324
39,888

3,022
36,264

Max

4,698
56,376

4,307
51,684

3,915
46,980

3,634
43,608

3,331
39,972

3,028
36,336

3,987
47,844

3,655
43,860

3,323
39,876

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 2

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R02

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1140

HEALTH RECORD TECHNICIAN

8134

8165

8166

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

NURSE PRACTITIONER - 10 MONTH

RANGE A

RANGE C

NURSE PRACTITIONER - 12 MONTH

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,385
28,620

2,186
26,232

1,988
23,856

2,260
27,120

2,072
24,864

1,883
22,596

4,387
43,870

3,656
43,872

4,387
52,644

4,021
48,252

3,656
43,872

Service

Max

2,838
34,056

2,602
31,224

2,365
28,380

2,566
30,792

2,352
28,224

2,138
25,656

5,285
52,850

4,404
52,848

5,285
63,420

4,845
58,140

4,404
52,848

Max

3,123
37,476

2,863
34,356

2,603
31,236

2,823
33,876

2,588
31,056

2,353
28,236

5,814
58,140

4,845
58,140

5,814
69,768

5,330
63,960

4,845
58,140

N

Y

N

N

C-6

C2A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

I-2

P2A

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 3

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R02

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

8130

NUTRITIONIST

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

7940

PER DIEM EXEMPT - HEALTHCARE

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,013
36,156

2,762
33,144

2,511
30,132

Service

Max

3,626
43,512

3,324
39,888

3,022
36,264

Max

3,987
47,844

3,655
43,860

3,323
39,876

3,887
46,644

TO

7,500
90,000

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

7

3

7930

PER DIEM NON-EXEMPT - HEALTHCARE

$16.82

TO

$34.96

PER HOUR

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

7

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

3

1

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

7991

PHARMACIST - 10 MONTH

7992

1

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE C

PHARMACIST - 12 MONTH

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

4,319
43,190

3,599
43,188

4,319
51,828

3,959
47,508

3,599
43,188

5,206
52,060

4,338
52,056

5,206
62,472

4,772
57,264

4,338
52,056

5,726
57,260

4,772
57,264

5,726
68,712

5,249
62,988

4,772
57,264

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 4

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R02

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7980

PHYSICAL THERAPIST I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

7981

7988

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PHYSICAL THERAPIST II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

RADIATION PROTECTION SPECIALIST

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,986
35,832

2,737
32,844

2,488
29,856

3,156
37,872

2,893
34,716

2,630
31,560

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

Service

Max

3,588
43,056

3,289
39,468

2,990
35,880

3,796
45,552

3,480
41,760

3,163
37,956

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

Max

3,948
47,376

3,619
43,428

3,290
39,480

4,175
50,100

3,827
45,924

3,479
41,748

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

N

Y

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-3

P2A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 5

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R02

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7995

RADIOLOGIC TECHNOLOGIST I

7996

8150

8151

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

RADIOLOGIC TECHNOLOGIST II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

REGISTERED NURSE I - 10 MONTH

RANGE A

RANGE C

REGISTERED NURSE I - 12 MONTH

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,758
33,096

2,528
30,336

2,298
27,576

2,959
35,508

2,712
32,544

2,466
29,592

2,935
29,350

2,446
29,352

2,935
35,220

2,690
32,280

2,446
29,352

Service

Max

3,318
39,816

3,042
36,504

2,765
33,180

3,557
42,684

3,261
39,132

2,964
35,568

3,530
35,300

2,942
35,304

3,530
42,360

3,236
38,832

2,942
35,304

Max

3,651
43,812

3,347
40,164

3,043
36,516

3,913
46,956

3,587
43,044

3,261
39,132

3,883
38,830

3,236
38,832

3,883
46,596

3,559
42,708

3,236
38,832

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 6

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R02

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

8153

REGISTERED NURSE II - 10 MONTH

8154

8156

8157

1

8

1

6

8

1

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE C

REGISTERED NURSE II - 12 MONTH

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

REGISTERED NURSE III - 10 MONTH

RANGE A

RANGE C

REGISTERED NURSE III - 12 MONTH

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,143
31,430

2,619
31,428

3,143
37,716

2,881
34,572

2,619
31,428

3,449
34,490

2,874
34,488

3,449
41,388

3,162
37,944

2,874
34,488

Service

Max

3,782
37,820

3,152
37,824

3,782
45,384

3,467
41,604

3,152
37,824

4,153
41,530

3,461
41,532

4,153
49,836

3,807
45,684

3,461
41,532

Max

4,160
41,600

3,467
41,604

4,160
49,920

3,813
45,756

3,467
41,604

4,567
45,670

3,806
45,672

4,567
54,804

4,186
50,232

3,806
45,672

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

I-1

P2A

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 7

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

8005

SANITARIAN II

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SPEECH PATHOLOGIST

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

7976

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R02

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,170
38,040

2,906
34,872

2,642
31,704

3,736
44,832

3,425
41,100

3,113
37,356

Service

Max

3,815
45,780

3,497
41,964

3,179
38,148

4,504
54,048

4,129
49,548

3,753
45,036

Max

4,197
50,364

3,847
46,164

3,498
41,976

4,955
59,460

4,542
54,504

4,129
49,548

E

N

N

N

I-3

P2A

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-1

P2A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 8

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0304

COOK I

0306

1

3

6

8

1

3

6

8

RANGE A

CRUISE

RANGE E

RANGE C

COOK I LEAD

RANGE A

CRUISE

RANGE E

RANGE C

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

2,078
24,936

2,048
24,576

1,905
22,860

1,732
20,784

2,521
30,252

2,484
29,808

2,311
27,732

2,101
25,212

2,525
30,300

2,488
29,856

2,315
27,780

2,104
25,248

3,063
36,756

3,019
36,228

2,808
33,696

2,553
30,636

Max

2,777
33,324

2,739
32,868

2,546
30,552

2,314
27,768

3,370
40,440

3,320
39,840

3,089
37,068

2,808
33,696

N

Y

N

N

S-1

M5A

1

N

Y

N

N

S-1

M5A

1

1

3

1

1

1

3

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 1

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0305

COOK II

0307

1

3

6

8

1

3

6

8

RANGE A

CRUISE

RANGE E

RANGE C

COOK II LEAD

RANGE A

CRUISE

RANGE E

RANGE C

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

2,314
27,768

2,281
27,372

2,121
25,452

1,928
23,136

2,866
34,392

2,824
33,888

2,627
31,524

2,388
28,656

2,811
33,732

2,772
33,264

2,577
30,924

2,343
28,116

3,484
41,808

3,434
41,208

3,194
38,328

2,903
34,836

Max

3,093
37,116

3,048
36,576

2,835
34,020

2,578
30,936

3,831
45,972

3,777
45,324

3,512
42,144

3,193
38,316

N

Y

N

N

S-1

M5A

1

N

Y

N

N

S-1

M5A

1

1

3

1

1

1

3

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 2

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2010

CUSTODIAN

6385

0308

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

3

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

FARM MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS WORKER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

FOOD SERVICE WORKER I

RANGE A

CRUISE

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,910
22,920

1,751
21,012

1,592
19,104

2,465
29,580

2,260
27,120

2,054
24,648

1,803
21,636

1,776
21,312

1,653
19,836

1,503
18,036

Service

Max

2,254
27,048

2,066
24,792

1,878
22,536

2,934
35,208

2,690
32,280

2,445
29,340

2,191
26,292

2,159
25,908

2,008
24,096

1,826
21,912

Max

2,479
29,748

2,272
27,264

2,066
24,792

3,228
38,736

2,959
35,508

2,690
32,280

2,410
28,920

2,375
28,500

2,209
26,508

2,008
24,096

N

Y

Y

Y

E-1

M5A

1

1

O

Y

N

N

B-6

M5A

1

1

N

Y

Y

N

S-1

M5A

1

1

3

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 3

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0310

FOOD SERVICE WORKER I LEAD

1

6

8

1

3

6

8

1

6

8

0309

0311

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

FOOD SERVICE WORKER II

RANGE A

CRUISE

RANGE E

RANGE C

FOOD SERVICE WORKER II LEAD

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,159
25,908

1,979
23,748

1,799
21,588

1,935
23,220

1,907
22,884

1,774
21,288

1,613
19,356

2,660
31,920

2,438
29,256

2,217
26,604

Service

Max

2,624
31,488

2,405
28,860

2,187
26,244

2,353
28,236

2,319
27,828

2,157
25,884

1,961
23,532

3,233
38,796

2,964
35,568

2,694
32,328

Max

2,886
34,632

2,646
31,752

2,405
28,860

2,588
31,056

2,551
30,612

2,372
28,464

2,157
25,884

3,556
42,672

3,260
39,120

2,963
35,556

N

Y

N

N

S-1

M5A

1

1

N

Y

Y

N

S-1

M5A

1

1

3

1

1

N

Y

N

N

S-1

M5A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 4

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0743

GARDENER

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

GARDENING SPECIALIST

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

GROUNDSWORKER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

0745

0731

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,415
28,980

2,214
26,568

2,013
24,156

2,415
28,980

2,214
26,568

2,013
24,156

2,254
27,048

2,066
24,792

1,878
22,536

Service

Max

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

2,559
30,708

2,346
28,152

2,133
25,596

Max

3,164
37,968

2,900
34,800

2,637
31,644

3,164
37,968

2,900
34,800

2,637
31,644

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

N

Y

N

N

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

B-4

M5A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 5

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0733

GROUNDSWORKER TRAINEE

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

6367

6366

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT OPERATOR

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

HEAVY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR/BUS DRIVER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,910
22,920

1,751
21,012

1,592
19,104

2,803
33,636

2,569
30,828

2,336
28,032

2,684
32,208

2,460
29,520

2,237
26,844

Service

Max

1,990
23,880

1,824
21,888

1,658
19,896

3,071
36,852

2,815
33,780

2,559
30,708

2,934
35,208

2,690
32,280

2,445
29,340

Max

2,189
26,268

2,007
24,084

1,824
21,888

3,379
40,548

3,097
37,164

2,816
33,792

3,228
38,736

2,959
35,508

2,690
32,280

N

Y

Y

Y

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

B-6

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

B-6

M5A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 6

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0735

IRRIGATION SPECIALIST

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LABORER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LEAD CUSTODIAN

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

6223

2015

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,415
28,980

2,214
26,568

2,013
24,156

2,254
27,048

2,066
24,792

1,878
22,536

2,058
24,696

1,887
22,644

1,715
20,580

Service

Max

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

2,449
29,388

2,245
26,940

2,041
24,492

2,433
29,196

2,230
26,760

2,028
24,336

Max

3,164
37,968

2,900
34,800

2,637
31,644

2,697
32,364

2,472
29,664

2,248
26,976

2,674
32,088

2,451
29,412

2,228
26,736

N

Y

N

N

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

E-1

M5A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 7

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0726

LEAD GROUNDSWORKER

1

6

8

1

6

8

6363

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LIGHT AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT OPERATOR

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

0104

MAINTENANCE AND LABORER TRAINEE

0739

PEST CONTROL AND SPRAY SPECIALIST

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,547
30,564

2,335
28,020

2,123
25,476

2,572
30,864

2,358
28,296

2,143
25,716

Service

Max

3,042
36,504

2,789
33,468

2,535
30,420

2,803
33,636

2,569
30,828

2,336
28,032

Max

3,347
40,164

3,068
36,816

2,789
33,468

3,085
37,020

2,828
33,936

2,571
30,852

946
11,352

1,742
20,904

1,918
23,016

2,415
28,980

2,214
26,568

2,013
24,156

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

3,164
37,968

2,900
34,800

2,637
31,644

N

Y

N

N

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

B-6

M5A

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

B-4

M5A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 8

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0746

TREE TRIMMER I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

TREE TRIMMER II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

WAREHOUSE WORKER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

0748

1508

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,415
28,980

2,214
26,568

2,013
24,156

2,521
30,252

2,311
27,732

2,101
25,212

2,188
26,256

2,006
24,072

1,823
21,876

Service

Max

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

3,013
36,156

2,762
33,144

2,511
30,132

2,591
31,092

2,375
28,500

2,159
25,908

Max

3,164
37,968

2,900
34,800

2,637
31,644

3,314
39,768

3,038
36,456

2,762
33,144

2,850
34,200

2,613
31,356

2,375
28,500

N

Y

N

N

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

B-4

M5A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

H-8

M5A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 9

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2013

WINDOW CLEANER

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R05

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,207
26,484

2,023
24,276

1,839
22,068

Service

Max

2,614
31,368

2,396
28,752

2,178
26,136

Max

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

N

Y

N

Y

E-1

M5A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 10

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

1,925
23,100

1,765
21,180

1,604
19,248

2,232
26,784

2,046
24,552

1,860
22,320

2,480
29,760

2,273
27,276

2,067
24,804

2,270
27,240

2,081
24,972

1,892
22,704

2,643
31,716

2,423
29,076

2,203
26,436

2,952
35,424

2,706
32,472

2,460
29,520

Max

2,496
29,952

2,288
27,456

2,080
24,960

2,910
34,920

2,668
32,016

2,425
29,100

3,246
38,952

2,976
35,712

2,705
32,460

N

Y

Y

Y

C-4

C7A

1

N

Y

N

Y

H-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-3

T7C

1

1

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1733

ACCOUNTING CLERK

1

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

1730

1741

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 1

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1740

ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN III

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

2

1

2

1131

1030

1031

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT ASSISTANT -10/12

ASSISTANT I

ASSISTANT II

ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT ASSISTANT -11/12

ASSISTANT I

ASSISTANT II

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,823
33,876

2,588
31,056

2,353
28,236

2,714
32,568

2,488
29,856

2,262
27,144

1,495
17,940

1,793
21,516

1,645
19,740

1,973
23,676

Service

Max

3,389
40,668

3,107
37,284

2,824
33,888

3,245
38,940

2,975
35,700

2,704
32,448

1,929
23,148

2,241
26,892

2,122
25,464

2,465
29,580

Max

3,727
44,724

3,416
40,992

3,106
37,272

3,571
42,852

3,273
39,276

2,976
35,712

2,167
26,004

2,690
32,280

2,383
28,596

2,959
35,508

N

Y

N

N

H-3

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

N

C-1

C7B

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

C-3

C7A

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

C-3

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 2

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1032

ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT ASSISTANT -12
MONTH

1033

1034

1035

1

2

1

2

1

2

1

2

ASSISTANT I

ASSISTANT II

ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT COORDINATOR
-10/12

COORDINATOR I

COORDINATOR II

ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT COORDINATOR
-11/12

COORDINATOR I

COORDINATOR II

ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT COORDINATOR -12
MONTH

COORDINATOR I

COORDINATOR II

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

1,794
21,528

2,152
25,824

2,011
24,132

2,201
26,412

2,212
26,544

2,421
29,052

2,413
28,956

2,641
31,692

2,315
27,780

2,689
32,268

2,554
30,648

2,780
33,360

2,810
33,720

3,058
36,696

3,065
36,780

3,336
40,032

Max

2,600
31,200

3,228
38,736

2,917
35,004

3,305
39,660

3,208
38,496

3,636
43,632

3,500
42,000

3,966
47,592

N

Y

Y

Y

C-3

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7B

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 3

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2899

BOOK REPAIRER I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

BOOK REPAIRER II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

BUYER I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

2898

4791

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,102
25,224

1,927
23,124

1,752
21,024

2,270
27,240

2,081
24,972

1,892
22,704

2,633
31,596

2,414
28,968

2,194
26,328

Service

Max

2,477
29,724

2,271
27,252

2,064
24,768

2,684
32,208

2,460
29,520

2,237
26,844

3,217
38,604

2,949
35,388

2,681
32,172

Max

2,725
32,700

2,498
29,976

2,271
27,252

2,951
35,412

2,705
32,460

2,459
29,508

3,540
42,480

3,245
38,940

2,950
35,400

N

Y

Y

N

M-2

T7C

1

1

N

Y

Y

N

M-2

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-7

T7D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 4

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

4792

BUYER II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

BUYER II - LEAD

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

BUYER III

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

4793

4794

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,924
35,088

2,680
32,160

2,437
29,244

3,069
36,828

2,813
33,756

2,558
30,696

3,217
38,604

2,949
35,388

2,681
32,172

Service

Max

3,575
42,900

3,277
39,324

2,979
35,748

3,754
45,048

3,441
41,292

3,128
37,536

3,932
47,184

3,604
43,248

3,277
39,324

Max

3,932
47,184

3,604
43,248

3,277
39,324

4,129
49,548

3,785
45,420

3,441
41,292

4,324
51,888

3,964
47,568

3,603
43,236

N

Y

N

N

H-7

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-7

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-7

T7D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 5

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

4795

BUYER III - LEAD

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

4790

BUYER TRAINEE

8352

CAMPUS GUARD

1

6

8

1

6

8

1125

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CLERICAL ASSISTANT I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,379
40,548

3,097
37,164

2,816
33,792

Service

Max

4,128
49,536

3,784
45,408

3,440
41,280

Max

4,540
54,480

4,162
49,944

3,783
45,396

2,379
28,548

2,501
30,012

2,750
33,000

2,232
26,784

2,046
24,552

1,860
22,320

1,834
22,008

1,681
20,172

1,528
18,336

2,641
31,692

2,421
29,052

2,201
26,412

2,159
25,908

1,979
23,748

1,799
21,588

2,906
34,872

2,664
31,968

2,422
29,064

2,375
28,500

2,177
26,124

1,979
23,748

N

Y

N

N

H-7

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-7

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

E-2

M7E

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

C-3

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 6

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1126

CLERICAL ASSISTANT II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CLERICAL ASSISTANT III

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CLERICAL ASSISTANT IV

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

1127

1128

1120

CLERICAL TRAINEE

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,972
23,664

1,808
21,696

1,643
19,716

2,205
26,460

2,021
24,252

1,838
22,056

2,432
29,184

2,229
26,748

2,027
24,324

Service

Max

2,326
27,912

2,132
25,584

1,938
23,256

2,611
31,332

2,393
28,716

2,176
26,112

2,894
34,728

2,653
31,836

2,412
28,944

Max

2,559
30,708

2,346
28,152

2,133
25,596

2,872
34,464

2,633
31,596

2,393
28,716

3,182
38,184

2,917
35,004

2,652
31,824

N

Y

Y

Y

C-3

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-3

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-3

C7B

1

1

946
11,352

1,726
20,712

1,898
22,776

N

Y

Y

Y

C-3

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 7

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1758

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1759

1757

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE TRAINEE

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,205
26,460

2,021
24,252

1,838
22,056

2,547
30,564

2,335
28,020

2,123
25,476

1,902
22,824

1,744
20,928

1,585
19,020

Service

Max

2,611
31,332

2,393
28,716

2,176
26,112

3,041
36,492

2,788
33,456

2,534
30,408

1,998
23,976

1,832
21,984

1,665
19,980

Max

2,872
34,464

2,633
31,596

2,393
28,716

3,346
40,152

3,067
36,804

2,788
33,456

2,198
26,376

2,015
24,180

1,832
21,984

N

Y

N

N

H-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-3

T7C

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 8

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1927

DATA CONTROL TECHNICIAN

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1418

1421

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DATA ENTRY OPERATOR

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DATA ENTRY OPERATOR TRAINEE

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,081
24,972

1,908
22,896

1,734
20,808

1,892
22,704

1,734
20,808

1,577
18,924

1,732
20,784

1,588
19,056

1,443
17,316

Service

Max

2,455
29,460

2,250
27,000

2,046
24,552

2,232
26,784

2,046
24,552

1,860
22,320

1,880
22,560

1,723
20,676

1,567
18,804

Max

2,703
32,436

2,478
29,736

2,253
27,036

2,453
29,436

2,249
26,988

2,044
24,528

2,067
24,804

1,895
22,740

1,723
20,676

N

Y

Y

Y

F-5

T7C

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

F-4

T7C

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

F-4

T7C

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 9

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1070

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1072

1071

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY I, DICTATING
MACHINE TRANSCRIBING

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY I, STENOGRAPHY

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,212
26,544

2,028
24,336

1,843
22,116

2,212
26,544

2,028
24,336

1,843
22,116

2,212
26,544

2,028
24,336

1,843
22,116

Service

Max

2,614
31,368

2,396
28,752

2,178
26,136

2,614
31,368

2,396
28,752

2,178
26,136

2,614
31,368

2,396
28,752

2,178
26,136

Max

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

2,876
34,512

2,636
31,632

2,397
28,764

N

Y

Y

Y

C-1

C7A

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

C-1

C7A

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

C-1

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 10

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1080

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1082

1081

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY II, DICTATING
MACHINE TRANSCRIBING

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY II, STENOGRAPHY

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,413
28,956

2,212
26,544

2,011
24,132

2,413
28,956

2,212
26,544

2,011
24,132

2,413
28,956

2,212
26,544

2,011
24,132

Service

Max

2,860
34,320

2,622
31,464

2,383
28,596

2,860
34,320

2,622
31,464

2,383
28,596

2,860
34,320

2,622
31,464

2,383
28,596

Max

3,145
37,740

2,883
34,596

2,621
31,452

3,145
37,740

2,883
34,596

2,621
31,452

3,145
37,740

2,883
34,596

2,621
31,452

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 11

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1090

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY III

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1092

1091

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY III, DICTATING
MACHINE TRANSCRIBING

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DEPARTMENTAL SECRETARY III, STENOGRAPHY

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,641
31,692

2,421
29,052

2,201
26,412

2,641
31,692

2,421
29,052

2,201
26,412

2,641
31,692

2,421
29,052

2,201
26,412

Service

Max

3,144
37,728

2,882
34,584

2,620
31,440

3,144
37,728

2,882
34,584

2,620
31,440

3,144
37,728

2,882
34,584

2,620
31,440

Max

3,459
41,508

3,171
38,052

2,883
34,596

3,459
41,508

3,171
38,052

2,883
34,596

3,459
41,508

3,171
38,052

2,883
34,596

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

C-1

C7B

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 12

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

9692

DORMITORY SUPERVISOR

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

3022

3023

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DRAFTING AID

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DRAFTING TECHNICIAN I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,925
23,100

1,765
21,180

1,604
19,248

2,197
26,364

2,014
24,168

1,831
21,972

2,575
30,900

2,360
28,320

2,146
25,752

Service

Max

2,270
27,240

2,081
24,972

1,892
22,704

2,600
31,200

2,383
28,596

2,167
26,004

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

Max

2,496
29,952

2,288
27,456

2,080
24,960

2,859
34,308

2,621
31,452

2,383
28,596

3,392
40,704

3,109
37,308

2,827
33,924

N

Y

Y

N

O-1

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

N-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

N-3

T7D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 13

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

3024

DRAFTING TECHNICIAN II

1450

1467

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DUPLICATING MACHINE OPERATOR I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DUPLICATING MACHINE OPERATOR II, DIRECT

IMPRESSION

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

1,892
22,704

1,734
20,808

1,577
18,924

2,030
24,360

1,861
22,332

1,692
20,304

Service

Max

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

2,232
26,784

2,046
24,552

1,860
22,320

2,397
28,764

2,197
26,364

1,998
23,976

Max

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

2,453
29,436

2,249
26,988

2,044
24,528

2,636
31,632

2,416
28,992

2,197
26,364

N

Y

N

N

N-3

T7D

1

1

N

Y

Y

N

D-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

Y

N

D-3

T7C

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 14

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1466

DUPLICATING MACHINE OPERATOR II, OFFSET

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1464

1160

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

DUPLICATING MACHINE SUPERVISOR I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EDITORIAL AID

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,105
25,260

1,930
23,160

1,754
21,048

2,346
28,152

2,151
25,812

1,955
23,460

2,287
27,444

2,096
25,152

1,906
22,872

Service

Max

2,490
29,880

2,283
27,396

2,075
24,900

2,788
33,456

2,556
30,672

2,323
27,876

2,713
32,556

2,487
29,844

2,261
27,132

Max

2,740
32,880

2,512
30,144

2,283
27,396

3,066
36,792

2,811
33,732

2,555
30,660

2,985
35,820

2,736
32,832

2,488
29,856

N

Y

Y

Y

D-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

D-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

C-3

T7D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 15

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1132

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

1413

1414

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

GRAPHICS SPECIALIST I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

GRAPHICS SPECIALIST II, GRAPHICS
ART/TECHNICAL

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,776
33,312

2,545
30,540

2,313
27,756

2,205
26,460

2,021
24,252

1,838
22,056

2,385
28,620

2,186
26,232

1,988
23,856

Service

Max

3,336
40,032

3,058
36,696

2,780
33,360

2,611
31,332

2,393
28,716

2,176
26,112

2,838
34,056

2,602
31,224

2,365
28,380

Max

3,668
44,016

3,362
40,344

3,057
36,684

2,872
34,464

2,633
31,596

2,393
28,716

3,123
37,476

2,863
34,356

2,603
31,236

N

Y

N

N

C-1

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 16

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

9688

HEAD RESIDENT I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

9687

5210

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

HEAD RESIDENT II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

HEALTH SERVICES ASSISTANT

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,431
29,172

2,228
26,736

2,026
24,312

2,686
32,232

2,462
29,544

2,238
26,856

2,944
35,328

2,699
32,388

2,453
29,436

Service

Max

2,875
34,500

2,635
31,620

2,396
28,752

3,193
38,316

2,927
35,124

2,661
31,932

3,542
42,504

3,247
38,964

2,952
35,424

Max

3,162
37,944

2,899
34,788

2,635
31,620

3,511
42,132

3,218
38,616

2,926
35,112

3,897
46,764

3,572
42,864

3,248
38,976

N

Y

N

N

O-1

P7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

O-1

P7D

1

1

N

Y

N

N

I-4

T7D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 17

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,939
23,268

1,777
21,324

1,616
19,392

2,385
28,620

2,186
26,232

1,988
23,856

2,258
27,096

2,070
24,840

1,882
22,584

Service

Max

2,289
27,468

2,098
25,176

1,908
22,896

2,838
34,056

2,602
31,224

2,365
28,380

2,679
32,148

2,456
29,472

2,233
26,796

Max

2,518
30,216

2,308
27,696

2,098
25,176

3,123
37,476

2,863
34,356

2,603
31,236

2,946
35,352

2,701
32,412

2,455
29,460

N

Y

Y

Y

H-8

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

M-2

T7C

1

1

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1553

INVENTORY CLERK

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LEAD GRAPHICS SPECIALIST

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LIBRARY ASSISTANT I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

1415

2906

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 18

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2905

LIBRARY ASSISTANT II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LIBRARY ASSISTANT III

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LIBRARY ASSISTANT IV

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

2907

2908

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,554
30,648

2,341
28,092

2,128
25,536

2,776
33,312

2,545
30,540

2,313
27,756

2,942
35,304

2,697
32,364

2,452
29,424

Service

Max

3,058
36,696

2,803
33,636

2,548
30,576

3,336
40,032

3,058
36,696

2,780
33,360

3,531
42,372

3,237
38,844

2,943
35,316

Max

3,363
40,356

3,083
36,996

2,803
33,636

3,668
44,016

3,362
40,344

3,057
36,684

3,882
46,584

3,559
42,708

3,235
38,820

N

Y

N

Y

M-2

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

M-2

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

M-2

T7C

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 19

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2904

LIBRARY ASSISTANT TRAINEE

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1505

1504

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

MAIL CLERK

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

MAIL SERVICES SUPERVISOR I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,044
24,528

1,874
22,488

1,703
20,436

2,011
24,132

1,843
22,116

1,676
20,112

2,240
26,880

2,053
24,636

1,867
22,404

Service

Max

2,253
27,036

2,065
24,780

1,878
22,536

2,378
28,536

2,180
26,160

1,982
23,784

2,654
31,848

2,433
29,196

2,212
26,544

Max

2,478
29,736

2,272
27,264

2,065
24,780

2,616
31,392

2,398
28,776

2,180
26,160

2,921
35,052

2,678
32,136

2,434
29,208

N

Y

N

Y

M-2

T7C

1

1

N

Y

Y

N

D-2

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

D-2

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 20

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,444
29,328

2,240
26,880

2,037
24,444

2,187
26,244

2,005
24,060

1,823
21,876

2,205
26,460

2,021
24,252

1,838
22,056

Service

Max

2,917
35,004

2,674
32,088

2,431
29,172

2,588
31,056

2,372
28,464

2,157
25,884

2,611
31,332

2,393
28,716

2,176
26,112

Max

3,210
38,520

2,943
35,316

2,675
32,100

2,847
34,164

2,610
31,320

2,373
28,476

2,872
34,464

2,633
31,596

2,393
28,716

N

Y

N

N

C-6

C7B

1

1

N

Y

Y

N

C-6

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7C

1

1

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1142

MEDICAL SECRETARY

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

MEDICAL TRANSCRIBER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

MICROGRAPHICS TECHNICIAN

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

1144

1426

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 21

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1424

MICROGRAPHICS TECHNICIAN TRAINEE

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

8341

8351

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PARKING GARAGE SUPERVISOR

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PARKING OFFICER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,972
23,664

1,808
21,696

1,643
19,716

2,346
28,152

2,151
25,812

1,955
23,460

2,232
26,784

2,046
24,552

1,860
22,320

Service

Max

2,140
25,680

1,962
23,544

1,783
21,396

2,788
33,456

2,556
30,672

2,323
27,876

2,641
31,692

2,421
29,052

2,201
26,412

Max

2,354
28,248

2,158
25,896

1,962
23,544

3,066
36,792

2,811
33,732

2,555
30,660

2,906
34,872

2,664
31,968

2,422
29,064

N

Y

Y

Y

D-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

E-3

M7E

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

E-3

M7E

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 22

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1100

PAYROLL TECHNICIAN I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PAYROLL TECHNICIAN II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PAYROLL TECHNICIAN III

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

1101

1102

1099

PAYROLL TECHNICIAN TRAINEE

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,232
26,784

2,046
24,552

1,860
22,320

2,480
29,760

2,273
27,276

2,067
24,804

2,823
33,876

2,588
31,056

2,353
28,236

Service

Max

2,643
31,716

2,423
29,076

2,203
26,436

2,952
35,424

2,706
32,472

2,460
29,520

3,389
40,668

3,107
37,284

2,824
33,888

Max

2,910
34,920

2,668
32,016

2,425
29,100

3,246
38,952

2,976
35,712

2,705
32,460

3,727
44,724

3,416
40,992

3,106
37,272

N

Y

Y

N

C-4

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

C-4

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

N

C-4

C7B

1

1

1,925
23,100

2,270
27,240

2,496
29,952

N

Y

N

N

C-4

C7A

7

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 23

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1409

POWER KEYBOARD OPERATOR

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1408

1550

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

POWER KEYBOARD OPERATOR TRAINEE

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PROPERTY CLERK I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,124
25,488

1,947
23,364

1,770
21,240

1,972
23,664

1,808
21,696

1,643
19,716

2,240
26,880

2,053
24,636

1,867
22,404

Service

Max

2,514
30,168

2,305
27,660

2,095
25,140

2,140
25,680

1,962
23,544

1,783
21,396

2,654
31,848

2,433
29,196

2,212
26,544

Max

2,764
33,168

2,534
30,408

2,303
27,636

2,354
28,248

2,158
25,896

1,962
23,544

2,921
35,052

2,678
32,136

2,434
29,208

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

D-3

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-8

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 24

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1549

PROPERTY CLERK II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

8349

1472

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCHER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

REPRODUCTION PROCESSES ASSISTANT

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,544
30,528

2,332
27,984

2,120
25,440

2,418
29,016

2,217
26,604

2,015
24,180

2,258
27,096

2,070
24,840

1,882
22,584

Service

Max

3,042
36,504

2,789
33,468

2,535
30,420

2,865
34,380

2,626
31,512

2,388
28,656

2,679
32,148

2,456
29,472

2,233
26,796

Max

3,347
40,164

3,068
36,816

2,789
33,468

3,150
37,800

2,888
34,656

2,625
31,500

2,946
35,352

2,701
32,412

2,455
29,460

N

Y

N

N

H-8

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

E-3

M7E

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7C

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 25

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1471

REPRODUCTION PROCESSES SUPERVISOR I

1129

1928

1

6

8

1

2

6

7

8

9

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SECRETARY

RANGE A

RANGE B

RANGE E

RANGE F

RANGE C

RANGE D

SENIOR DATA CONTROL TECHNICIAN

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,554
30,648

2,341
28,092

2,128
25,536

2,268
27,216

2,268
27,216

2,079
24,948

2,079
24,948

1,890
22,680

1,890
22,680

2,325
27,900

2,131
25,572

1,938
23,256

Service

Max

3,058
36,696

2,803
33,636

2,548
30,576

2,683
32,196

2,683
32,196

2,459
29,508

2,459
29,508

2,236
26,832

2,236
26,832

2,758
33,096

2,528
30,336

2,298
27,576

Max

3,363
40,356

3,083
36,996

2,803
33,636

2,950
35,400

2,950
35,400

2,704
32,448

2,704
32,448

2,458
29,496

2,458
29,496

3,035
36,420

2,782
33,384

2,529
30,348

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

N

C-1

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

F-5

T7D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 26

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1416

SENIOR DATA ENTRY OPERATOR

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1130

1502

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SENIOR SECRETARY

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SHIPPING AND RECEIVING ASSISTANT I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,113
25,356

1,937
23,244

1,761
21,132

2,479
29,748

2,272
27,264

2,066
24,792

2,240
26,880

2,053
24,636

1,867
22,404

Service

Max

2,502
30,024

2,294
27,528

2,085
25,020

2,950
35,400

2,704
32,448

2,458
29,496

2,654
31,848

2,433
29,196

2,212
26,544

Max

2,751
33,012

2,522
30,264

2,293
27,516

3,245
38,940

2,975
35,700

2,704
32,448

2,921
35,052

2,678
32,136

2,434
29,208

N

Y

N

Y

F-4

T7C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

C-1

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-8

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 27

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2935

SLIDE CURATOR I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SLIDE CURATOR II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

STOCK CLERK

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

2936

1509

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,642
31,704

2,422
29,064

2,202
26,424

3,018
36,216

2,767
33,204

2,515
30,180

2,088
25,056

1,914
22,968

1,740
20,880

Service

Max

3,160
37,920

2,897
34,764

2,633
31,596

3,627
43,524

3,325
39,900

3,023
36,276

2,471
29,652

2,265
27,180

2,059
24,708

Max

3,476
41,712

3,186
38,232

2,897
34,764

3,990
47,880

3,658
43,896

3,325
39,900

2,717
32,604

2,491
29,892

2,264
27,168

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T7D

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

H-8

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 28

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1506

STOREKEEPER I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1727

1428

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SUPERVISING ACCOUNT CLERK I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SUPERVISING MICROGRAPHICS TECHNICIAN I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,240
26,880

2,053
24,636

1,867
22,404

2,437
29,244

2,234
26,808

2,031
24,372

2,385
28,620

2,186
26,232

1,988
23,856

Service

Max

2,654
31,848

2,433
29,196

2,212
26,544

2,905
34,860

2,663
31,956

2,421
29,052

2,838
34,056

2,602
31,224

2,365
28,380

Max

2,921
35,052

2,678
32,136

2,434
29,208

3,195
38,340

2,929
35,148

2,663
31,956

3,123
37,476

2,863
34,356

2,603
31,236

N

Y

N

Y

H-8

C7A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

C-4

C7B

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 29

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1430

SUPERVISING MICROGRAPHICS TECHNICIAN II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

8353

1628

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SUPERVISING PARKING OFFICER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SUPERVISING TELEPHONE OPERATOR

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,599
31,188

2,382
28,584

2,166
25,992

2,325
27,900

2,131
25,572

1,938
23,256

2,113
25,356

1,937
23,244

1,761
21,132

Service

Max

3,110
37,320

2,851
34,212

2,592
31,104

2,758
33,096

2,528
30,336

2,298
27,576

2,502
30,024

2,294
27,528

2,085
25,020

Max

3,421
41,052

3,136
37,632

2,851
34,212

3,035
36,420

2,782
33,384

2,529
30,348

2,751
33,012

2,522
30,264

2,293
27,516

N

Y

N

Y

D-3

T7D

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

E-3

M7E

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

D-1

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 30

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1635

TELEPHONE OPERATOR

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R07

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,868
22,416

1,712
20,544

1,557
18,684

Service

Max

2,205
26,460

2,021
24,252

1,838
22,056

Max

2,427
29,124

2,225
26,700

2,023
24,276

N

Y

Y

Y

D-1

C7A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/20/1999

Page 31

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2867

ACCOMPANIST I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ACCOMPANIST II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ACCOUNTANT I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

2866

1762

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,197
26,364

2,014
24,168

1,831
21,972

2,689
32,268

2,465
29,580

2,241
26,892

3,048
36,576

2,794
33,528

2,540
30,480

Service

Max

2,600
31,200

2,383
28,596

2,167
26,004

3,228
38,736

2,959
35,508

2,690
32,280

3,671
44,052

3,365
40,380

3,059
36,708

Max

2,859
34,308

2,621
31,452

2,383
28,596

3,550
42,600

3,254
39,048

2,958
35,496

4,039
48,468

3,702
44,424

3,366
40,392

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

H-3

P9C

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 1

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

4555

ACCOUNTANT II

1036

1037

1

6

8

1

2

3

1

2

3

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYST/SPECIALIST
-10/12

NON-EXEMPT

EXEMPT I

EXEMPT II

ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYST/SPECIALIST
-11/12

NON-EXEMPT

EXEMPT I

EXEMPT II

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,327
39,924

3,050
36,600

2,773
33,276

2,323
27,876

2,754
33,048

3,316
39,792

2,556
30,672

3,030
36,360

3,647
43,764

Service

Max

4,005
48,060

3,671
44,052

3,338
40,056

3,160
37,920

3,443
41,316

4,062
48,744

3,476
41,712

3,788
45,456

4,468
53,616

Max

4,406
52,872

4,039
48,468

3,672
44,064

3,718
44,616

4,132
49,584

4,808
57,696

4,089
49,068

4,545
54,540

5,289
63,468

E

N

N

N

H-3

P9C

1

1

N

H-1

1

1

N

E

E

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

H-1

1

1

P9C

P9D

P9D

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 2

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1038

ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYST/SPECIALIST -12
MONTH

1

2

3

1

6

8

1

6

8

5341

5342

NON-EXEMPT

EXEMPT I

EXEMPT II

ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS ANALYST I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS ANALYST II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

Max

2,788
33,456

3,305
39,660

3,979
47,748

2,788
33,456

2,556
30,672

2,323
27,876

3,305
39,660

3,030
36,360

2,754
33,048

3,792
45,504

4,132
49,584

4,874
58,488

3,352
40,224

3,073
36,876

2,793
33,516

3,979
47,748

3,647
43,764

3,316
39,792

4,461
53,532

4,958
59,496

5,770
69,240

3,687
44,244

3,380
40,560

3,073
36,876

4,377
52,524

4,012
48,144

3,648
43,776

N

H-1

1

1

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

N

Y

N

Y

H-1

P9C

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

H-1

P9C

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 3

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

5343

ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS ANALYST III

5255

0402

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

2

3

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ADMINISTRATIVE TRAINEE

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ANALYST/PROGRAMMER -10/12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,979
47,748

3,647
43,764

3,316
39,792

2,428
29,136

2,226
26,712

2,023
24,276

2,347
28,164

2,956
35,472

4,224
50,688

Service

Max

4,796
57,552

4,396
52,752

3,997
47,964

2,643
31,716

2,423
29,076

2,203
26,436

3,285
39,420

4,037
48,444

4,224
50,688

Max

5,276
63,312

4,836
58,032

4,397
52,764

2,910
34,920

2,668
32,016

2,425
29,100

3,413
40,956

5,513
66,156

6,179
74,148

E

N

N

N

H-1

P9D

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-1

P9C

1

1

N

F-3

1

1

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 4

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0401

ANALYST/PROGRAMMER -11/12

1

2

3

1

2

3

1

6

8

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

ANALYST/PROGRAMMER -12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

ANIMAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

0400

0670

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

2,581
30,972

3,251
39,012

4,647
55,764

2,816
33,792

3,547
42,564

5,069
60,828

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,614
43,368

4,440
53,280

4,647
55,764

3,942
47,304

4,844
58,128

5,069
60,828

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

Max

3,754
45,048

6,064
72,768

6,797
81,564

4,095
49,140

6,615
79,380

7,415
88,980

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

N

F-3

1

1

N

E

E

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

F-3

1

1

P9C

P9D

P9D

N

Y

N

Y

A-2

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 5

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

5287

ASSISTANT BUDGET ANALYST

5284

5784

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ASSOCIATE BUDGET ANALYST

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ASSOCIATE, ACADEMIC AND INSTITUTIONAL
STUDIES I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,156
37,872

2,893
34,716

2,630
31,560

3,796
45,552

3,480
41,760

3,163
37,956

3,575
42,900

3,277
39,324

2,979
35,748

Service

Max

3,796
45,552

3,480
41,760

3,163
37,956

4,578
54,936

4,197
50,364

3,815
45,780

4,306
51,672

3,947
47,364

3,588
43,056

Max

4,175
50,100

3,827
45,924

3,479
41,748

5,037
60,444

4,617
55,404

4,198
50,376

4,737
56,844

4,342
52,104

3,948
47,376

N

Y

N

Y

H-4

P9C

1

1

E

N

N

N

H-4

P9D

1

1

E

N

N

N

H-2

P9D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 6

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

5783

ASSOCIATE, ACADEMIC AND INSTITUTIONAL
STUDIES II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

5787

1514

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ASSOCIATE, ACADEMIC AND INSTITUTIONAL
STUDIES III

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT ATTENDANT I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

4,516
54,192

4,140
49,680

3,763
45,156

5,713
68,556

5,237
62,844

4,761
57,132

2,030
24,360

1,861
22,332

1,692
20,304

5,448
65,376

4,994
59,928

4,540
54,480

6,909
82,908

6,333
75,996

5,758
69,096

2,397
28,764

2,197
26,364

1,998
23,976

Max

5,994
71,928

5,495
65,940

4,995
59,940

7,598
91,176

6,965
83,580

6,332
75,984

2,636
31,632

2,416
28,992

2,197
26,364

E

N

N

N

H-2

P9D

1

1

E

N

N

N

H-2

P9D

1

1

N

Y

Y

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 7

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1513

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT ATTENDANT II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

8980

0301

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CAMPUS FIRE APPARATUS ENGINEER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CMA ASSOCIATE PERSONNEL ANALYST

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,269
27,228

2,080
24,960

1,891
22,692

2,999
35,988

2,749
32,988

2,499
29,988

3,863
46,356

3,541
42,492

3,219
38,628

Service

Max

2,689
32,268

2,465
29,580

2,241
26,892

3,606
43,272

3,306
39,672

3,005
36,060

4,662
55,944

4,274
51,288

3,885
46,620

Max

2,959
35,508

2,712
32,544

2,466
29,592

3,966
47,592

3,636
43,632

3,305
39,660

5,127
61,524

4,700
56,400

4,273
51,276

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

O

Y

N

N

E-3

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-5

P9C

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 8

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0300

CMA STAFF SERVICES ANALYST

1

6

8

1

3

1

3

1

6

8

0302

0303

6514

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CMA STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICER I

NON-CRUISE

CRUISE

CMA STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICER II

NON-CRUISE

CRUISE

COSTUME TECHNICIAN I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,213
38,556

2,945
35,340

2,678
32,136

2,903
34,836

3,311
39,732

3,213
38,556

3,666
43,992

2,575
30,900

2,360
28,320

2,146
25,752

Service

Max

3,863
46,356

3,541
42,492

3,219
38,628

3,560
42,720

4,062
48,744

3,905
46,860

4,454
53,448

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

Max

4,249
50,988

3,895
46,740

3,541
42,492

3,915
46,980

4,470
53,640

4,296
51,552

4,901
58,812

3,392
40,704

3,109
37,308

2,827
33,924

N

Y

N

N

H-5

P9C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

O-1

P4A

1

3

N

Y

N

N

O-1

P4A

1

3

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 9

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

6515

COSTUME TECHNICIAN II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CROP TECHNICIAN I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

CROP TECHNICIAN II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

0648

0651

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

2,724
32,688

2,497
29,964

2,270
27,240

2,986
35,832

2,737
32,844

2,488
29,856

Service

Max

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

3,274
39,288

3,001
36,012

2,728
32,736

3,588
43,056

3,289
39,468

2,990
35,880

Max

3,720
44,640

3,410
40,920

3,100
37,200

3,602
43,224

3,302
39,624

3,002
36,024

3,948
47,376

3,619
43,428

3,290
39,480

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

O

Y

N

Y

A-2

T9A

1

1

O

Y

N

Y

A-2

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 10

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

6970

DIVING SAFETY OFFICER

7000

0442

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

2

3

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE ASSISTANT

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS SPECIALIST -10/12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,557
42,684

3,261
39,132

2,964
35,568

2,575
30,900

2,360
28,320

2,146
25,752

1,947
23,364

2,290
27,480

2,863
34,356

Service

Max

4,288
51,456

3,931
47,172

3,573
42,876

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

2,506
30,072

2,867
34,404

2,863
34,356

Max

4,716
56,592

4,323
51,876

3,930
47,160

3,392
40,704

3,109
37,308

2,827
33,924

2,506
30,072

3,444
41,328

3,753
45,036

E

N

N

N

P-1

T9B

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

F-4

1

1

T9A

T9A

T9B

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 11

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0441

EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS SPECIALIST -11/12

1

2

3

1

2

3

1

6

8

0440

7002

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS SPECIALIST -12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN I,
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

2,141
25,692

2,519
30,228

3,149
37,788

2,336
28,032

2,748
32,976

3,435
41,220

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

2,756
33,072

3,153
37,836

3,149
37,788

3,007
36,084

3,440
41,280

3,435
41,220

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

Max

2,756
33,072

3,789
45,468

4,129
49,548

3,007
36,084

4,133
49,596

4,504
54,048

3,720
44,640

3,410
40,920

3,100
37,200

N

Y

N

Y

F-4

1

1

T9A

T9A

T9B

N

Y

N

Y

F-4

1

1

T9A

T9A

T9B

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 12

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7003

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN I, ELECTRONIC

7001

7004

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN I, MECHANICAL

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN I, SPECIALIZED
EQUIPMENT

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

Service

Max

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

Max

3,720
44,640

3,410
40,920

3,100
37,200

3,720
44,640

3,410
40,920

3,100
37,200

3,720
44,640

3,410
40,920

3,100
37,200

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 13

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7012

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN II,
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

7013

7011

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN II, ELECTRONIC

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN II, MECHANICAL

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

Max

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 14

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7014

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN II, SPECIALIZED
EQUIPMENT

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

7022

7023

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN III,
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN III, ELECTRONIC

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

4,073
48,876

3,734
44,808

3,394
40,728

4,073
48,876

3,734
44,808

3,394
40,728

Max

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

4,482
53,784

4,109
49,308

3,735
44,820

4,482
53,784

4,109
49,308

3,735
44,820

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9B

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9B

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 15

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7021

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN III, MECHANICAL

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

7024

0638

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN III, SPECIALIZED
EQUIPMENT

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

FARM LABORER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

2,063
24,756

1,891
22,692

1,719
20,628

Service

Max

4,073
48,876

3,734
44,808

3,394
40,728

4,073
48,876

3,734
44,808

3,394
40,728

2,440
29,280

2,237
26,844

2,033
24,396

Max

4,482
53,784

4,109
49,308

3,735
44,820

4,482
53,784

4,109
49,308

3,735
44,820

2,685
32,220

2,461
29,532

2,238
26,856

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9B

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9B

1

1

O

Y

Y

N

A-2

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 16

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0627

FARM SUPERVISOR I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

5330

0687

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

FEDERAL PROGRAMS COORDINATOR

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

FEED MILL OPERATOR

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,127
37,524

2,866
34,392

2,606
31,272

3,352
40,224

3,073
36,876

2,793
33,516

2,986
35,832

2,737
32,844

2,488
29,856

Service

Max

3,762
45,144

3,449
41,388

3,135
37,620

4,036
48,432

3,700
44,400

3,363
40,356

3,588
43,056

3,289
39,468

2,990
35,880

Max

4,137
49,644

3,792
45,504

3,448
41,376

4,439
53,268

4,069
48,828

3,699
44,388

3,948
47,376

3,619
43,428

3,290
39,480

E

N

N

N

A-2

T9A

1

1

E

N

N

N

H-1

P9D

1

1

O

Y

N

N

A-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 17

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

6960

FISH HATCHERY MANAGER

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

GLASSBLOWER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

GRAPHIC ARTIST I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

7512

2929

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,414
40,968

3,130
37,560

2,845
34,140

2,799
33,588

2,566
30,792

2,333
27,996

Service

Max

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

4,112
49,344

3,769
45,228

3,427
41,124

3,364
40,368

3,084
37,008

2,803
33,636

Max

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

4,523
54,276

4,146
49,752

3,769
45,228

3,701
44,412

3,393
40,716

3,084
37,008

E

N

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 18

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2930

GRAPHIC ARTIST II

0422

0421

1

6

8

1

2

3

1

2

3

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANT
-10/12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANT
-11/12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,215
38,580

2,947
35,364

2,679
32,148

2,347
28,164

2,956
35,472

4,224
50,688

2,581
30,972

3,251
39,012

4,647
55,764

Service

Max

3,869
46,428

3,547
42,564

3,224
38,688

3,285
39,420

4,037
48,444

4,224
50,688

3,614
43,368

4,440
53,280

4,647
55,764

Max

4,257
51,084

3,902
46,824

3,548
42,576

3,413
40,956

5,513
66,156

6,179
74,148

3,754
45,048

6,064
72,768

6,797
81,564

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

F-3

1

1

N

E

E

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

F-3

1

1

P9C

P9D

P9D

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 19

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0420

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANT -12

1

2

3

1

6

8

1

6

8

1577

1578

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT ASSISTANT I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT ASSISTANT II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

2,816
33,792

3,547
42,564

5,069
60,828

2,030
24,360

1,861
22,332

1,692
20,304

2,269
27,228

2,080
24,960

1,891
22,692

3,942
47,304

4,844
58,128

5,069
60,828

2,397
28,764

2,197
26,364

1,998
23,976

2,689
32,268

2,465
29,580

2,241
26,892

Max

4,095
49,140

6,615
79,380

7,415
88,980

2,636
31,632

2,416
28,992

2,197
26,364

2,959
35,508

2,712
32,544

2,466
29,592

N

F-3

1

1

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

N

Y

Y

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 20

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1579

INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT ASSISTANT III

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

1615

1617

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT TECHNICIAN I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT TECHNICIAN II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,575
30,900

2,360
28,320

2,146
25,752

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

Service

Max

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

Max

3,392
40,704

3,109
37,308

2,827
33,924

3,720
44,640

3,410
40,920

3,100
37,200

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 21

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

1619

INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT TECHNICIAN III

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

7170

INTERPRETER/TRANSLITERATOR I

7165

INTERPRETER/TRANSLITERATOR I AY

7169

INTERPRETER/TRANSLITERATOR II

1

2

1

2

7166

RANGE A

RANGE B

INTERPRETER/TRANSLITERATOR II AY

RANGE A

RANGE B

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

Service

Max

4,073
48,876

3,734
44,808

3,394
40,728

Max

4,482
53,784

4,109
49,308

3,735
44,820

1,420
17,040

3,760
45,120

4,754
57,048

929
11,148

2,458
29,496

3,108
37,296

3,400
40,800

3,902
46,824

2,233
26,796

2,552
30,624

4,321
51,852

4,973
59,676

2,825
33,900

3,252
39,024

5,466
65,592

6,292
75,504

3,574
42,888

4,114
49,368

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9B

1

1

N

Y

N

N

O-1

XXA

7

1

N

Y

N

N

O-1

XXA

1

3

N

Y

N

N

O-1

XXA

7

1

N

Y

N

N

O-1

XXA

1

3

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 22

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7888

LABORATORY ASSISTANT I

1

6

8

1

6

8

7879

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LABORATORY ASSISTANT II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

7168

LEAD INTERPRETER/TRANSLITERATOR

7167

LEAD INTERPRETER/TRANSLITERATOR AY

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,824
21,888

1,672
20,064

1,520
18,240

1,955
23,460

1,792
21,504

1,629
19,548

Service

Max

2,151
25,812

1,972
23,664

1,793
21,516

2,307
27,684

2,115
25,380

1,923
23,076

Max

2,365
28,380

2,168
26,016

1,971
23,652

2,538
30,456

2,327
27,924

2,115
25,380

3,570
42,840

5,170
62,040

6,607
79,284

2,334
28,008

3,380
40,560

4,320
51,840

N

Y

Y

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

Y

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

O-1

XXA

1

1

N

Y

N

N

O-1

XXA

1

3

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 23

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

3810

LIBRARY SERIALS EDITOR

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LIVESTOCK TECHNICIAN I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

LIVESTOCK TECHNICIAN II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

0663

0666

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

4,187
50,244

3,838
46,056

3,489
41,868

2,724
32,688

2,497
29,964

2,270
27,240

2,986
35,832

2,737
32,844

2,488
29,856

Service

Max

5,053
60,636

4,632
55,584

4,211
50,532

3,274
39,288

3,001
36,012

2,728
32,736

3,588
43,056

3,289
39,468

2,990
35,880

Max

5,559
66,708

5,096
61,152

4,633
55,596

3,602
43,224

3,302
39,624

3,002
36,024

3,948
47,376

3,619
43,428

3,290
39,480

E

N

N

N

H-1

P9D

1

1

O

Y

N

N

A-1

T9A

1

1

O

Y

N

N

A-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 24

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

7125

MEDIA PRODUCTION SPECIALIST I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

7126

7127

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

MEDIA PRODUCTION SPECIALIST II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

MEDIA PRODUCTION SPECIALIST III

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,575
30,900

2,360
28,320

2,146
25,752

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,542
42,504

3,247
38,964

2,952
35,424

Service

Max

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

4,266
51,192

3,911
46,932

3,555
42,660

Max

3,392
40,704

3,109
37,308

2,827
33,924

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

4,695
56,340

4,304
51,648

3,913
46,956

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

E

N

N

N

P-1

T9B

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 25

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0432

NETWORK ANALYST -10/12

0431

0430

1

2

3

1

2

3

1

2

3

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

NETWORK ANALYST -11/12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

NETWORK ANALYST -12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

2,347
28,164

2,956
35,472

4,224
50,688

2,581
30,972

3,251
39,012

4,647
55,764

2,816
33,792

3,547
42,564

5,069
60,828

3,285
39,420

4,037
48,444

4,224
50,688

3,614
43,368

4,440
53,280

4,647
55,764

3,942
47,304

4,844
58,128

5,069
60,828

Max

3,413
40,956

5,513
66,156

6,179
74,148

3,754
45,048

6,064
72,768

6,797
81,564

4,095
49,140

6,615
79,380

7,415
88,980

N

F-2

1

1

N

E

E

N

E

E

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

F-2

1

1

P9C

P9D

P9D

F-2

1

1

P9C

P9D

P9D

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 26

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0706

NURSERY TECHNICIAN I

0703

0412

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

2

3

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

NURSERY TECHNICIAN II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

OPERATING SYSTEMS ANALYST -10/12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,502
30,024

2,294
27,528

2,085
25,020

2,724
32,688

2,497
29,964

2,270
27,240

2,347
28,164

2,956
35,472

4,224
50,688

Service

Max

2,986
35,832

2,737
32,844

2,488
29,856

3,274
39,288

3,001
36,012

2,728
32,736

3,285
39,420

4,037
48,444

4,224
50,688

Max

3,283
39,396

3,009
36,108

2,736
32,832

3,602
43,224

3,302
39,624

3,002
36,024

3,413
40,956

5,513
66,156

6,179
74,148

N

Y

N

Y

A-2

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

A-2

T9A

1

1

N

F-2

1

1

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 27

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0411

OPERATING SYSTEMS ANALYST -11/12

1

2

3

1

2

3

1

2

3

0410

0452

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

OPERATING SYSTEMS ANALYST -12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

OPERATIONS SPECIALIST -10/12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

Service

Max

2,581
30,972

3,251
39,012

4,647
55,764

2,816
33,792

3,547
42,564

5,069
60,828

1,643
19,716

1,877
22,524

2,628
31,536

3,614
43,368

4,440
53,280

4,647
55,764

3,942
47,304

4,844
58,128

5,069
60,828

2,064
24,768

2,347
28,164

2,628
31,536

Max

3,754
45,048

6,064
72,768

6,797
81,564

4,095
49,140

6,615
79,380

7,415
88,980

2,064
24,768

2,816
33,792

3,238
38,856

N

F-2

1

1

N

E

E

N

E

E

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

P9C

P9D

P9D

F-2

1

1

P9C

P9D

P9D

N

Y

N

Y

F-4

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 28

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

0451

OPERATIONS SPECIALIST -11/12

1

2

3

1

2

3

0450

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

OPERATIONS SPECIALIST -12

FOUNDATION

CAREER

EXPERT

7931

PER DIEM NON-EXEMPT - TECHNICAL

5151

PERSONNEL ASSISTANT

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

1,807
21,684

2,064
24,768

2,891
34,692

1,971
23,652

2,252
27,024

3,154
37,848

Service

Max

2,271
27,252

2,581
30,972

2,891
34,692

2,477
29,724

2,816
33,792

3,154
37,848

Max

2,271
27,252

3,097
37,164

3,562
42,744

2,477
29,724

3,379
40,548

3,886
46,632

N

Y

N

Y

F-4

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

F-4

T9A

1

1

$10.57

TO

$40.72

PER HOUR

N

Y

N

N

O-1

XXA

7

N

Y

N

N

H-5

P9C

1

3

1

2,631
31,572

2,412
28,944

2,193
26,316

3,156
37,872

2,893
34,716

2,630
31,560

3,470
41,640

3,181
38,172

2,892
34,704

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 29

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

2845

PHOTOGRAPHER I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PHOTOGRAPHER II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PIANO TECHNICIAN I

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

2844

6950

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,799
33,588

2,566
30,792

2,333
27,996

3,215
38,580

2,947
35,364

2,679
32,148

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

Service

Max

3,364
40,368

3,084
37,008

2,803
33,636

3,869
46,428

3,547
42,564

3,224
38,688

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

Max

3,701
44,412

3,393
40,716

3,084
37,008

4,257
51,084

3,902
46,824

3,548
42,576

3,720
44,640

3,410
40,920

3,100
37,200

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 30

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

6951

PIANO TECHNICIAN II

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

6726

0697

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PLANNER/ESTIMATOR/SCHEDULER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

POULTRY TECHNICIAN

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,156
37,872

2,893
34,716

2,630
31,560

2,858
34,296

2,620
31,440

2,382
28,584

Service

Max

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

3,796
45,552

3,480
41,760

3,163
37,956

3,399
40,788

3,116
37,392

2,833
33,996

Max

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

4,175
50,100

3,827
45,924

3,479
41,748

3,740
44,880

3,428
41,136

3,117
37,404

N

Y

N

N

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

B-1

P9C

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

A-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 31

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

5597

PUBLIC AFFAIRS ASSISTANT I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

5598

3801

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

PUBLIC AFFAIRS ASSISTANT II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

RADIATION SAFETY OFFICER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,593
31,116

2,377
28,524

2,161
25,932

2,961
35,532

2,714
32,568

2,468
29,616

4,266
51,192

3,911
46,932

3,555
42,660

Service

Max

3,098
37,176

2,840
34,080

2,582
30,984

3,560
42,720

3,263
39,156

2,967
35,604

5,151
61,812

4,722
56,664

4,293
51,516

Max

3,408
40,896

3,124
37,488

2,840
34,080

3,915
46,980

3,589
43,068

3,263
39,156

5,664
67,968

5,192
62,304

4,720
56,640

N

Y

N

Y

H-6

P9C

1

1

E

N

N

N

H-6

P9C

1

1

E

N

N

N

I-3

P9D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 32

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

5683

RESEARCH TECHNICIAN I

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

RESEARCH TECHNICIAN II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

RESEARCH TECHNICIAN III

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

5681

5680

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,631
31,572

2,412
28,944

2,193
26,316

3,156
37,872

2,893
34,716

2,630
31,560

3,796
45,552

3,480
41,760

3,163
37,956

Service

Max

3,156
37,872

2,893
34,716

2,630
31,560

3,796
45,552

3,480
41,760

3,163
37,956

4,578
54,936

4,197
50,364

3,815
45,780

Max

3,470
41,640

3,181
38,172

2,892
34,704

4,175
50,100

3,827
45,924

3,479
41,748

5,037
60,444

4,617
55,404

4,198
50,376

N

Y

N

N

H-2

P9C

1

1

N

Y

N

N

H-2

P9C

1

1

E

N

N

N

H-2

P9D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 33

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

6725

SENIOR PLANNER/ESTIMATOR/SCHEDULER

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

2572

5250

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SPACE AND FACILITIES UTILIZATION
OFFICER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SPECIAL ASSISTANT, EOP

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

3,336
40,032

3,058
36,696

2,780
33,360

4,167
50,004

3,820
45,840

3,473
41,676

3,460
41,520

3,172
38,064

2,883
34,596

Service

Max

4,017
48,204

3,682
44,184

3,348
40,176

5,028
60,336

4,609
55,308

4,190
50,280

4,167
50,004

3,820
45,840

3,473
41,676

Max

4,417
53,004

4,049
48,588

3,681
44,172

5,529
66,348

5,068
60,816

4,608
55,296

4,584
55,008

4,202
50,424

3,820
45,840

E

N

N

N

B-1

P9D

1

1

E

N

N

N

H-1

P9D

1

1

E

N

N

N

H-1

P9D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 34

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

6508

STAGE TECHNICIAN I

6507

8981

1

6

8

1

6

8

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

STAGE TECHNICIAN II

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

SUPERVISING CAMPUS FIRE APPARATUS
ENGINEER

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

2,815
33,780

2,580
30,960

2,346
28,152

3,084
37,008

2,827
33,924

2,570
30,840

3,288
39,456

3,014
36,168

2,740
32,880

Service

Max

3,381
40,572

3,099
37,188

2,818
33,816

3,711
44,532

3,402
40,824

3,093
37,116

3,959
47,508

3,629
43,548

3,299
39,588

Max

3,720
44,640

3,410
40,920

3,100
37,200

4,080
48,960

3,740
44,880

3,400
40,800

4,355
52,260

3,992
47,904

3,629
43,548

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

N

Y

N

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

O

Y

N

N

E-3

T9B

1

1

1521

TECHNICIAN TRAINEE

942
11,304

1,718
20,616

1,889
22,668

N

Y

Y

Y

P-1

T9A

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 35

Class Range
Code
Code

Class Title

6918

TELEVISION ENGINEER

1

6

8

RANGE A

RANGE E

RANGE C

THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY SALARY SCHEDULE

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ID R09

(Effective July 1, 1999)

HR-ISA

Salary Range

Six

Occup Affirm Empl

Salary ________________________________________________________________ FLSA O/T Month Shift Index Action Cate Vac
Steps
Coding gory Acrl

Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate 4 Rate 5 Rate 6 Rate 7 Rate 8

Inc Diff

Ref

Min

4,266
51,192

3,911
46,932

3,555
42,660

Service

Max

5,151
61,812

4,722
56,664

4,293
51,516

Max

5,664
67,968

5,192
62,304

4,720
56,640

E

N

N

N

P-1

P9D

1

1

Issue Date: 10/29/1999

Page 36

