Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

19

Language English

Country United States

State WA

IDnum

Union

Local Washington Federation of State Employees ("AFL-CIO")

Office and administrative support worker supervisors and managers 
Office clerks, general 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Evergreen State College
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 1987

EndYear 1989

Source

http://www.evergreen.edu/user/pol_proc/g-union.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

Union Contract 
 
Signed and dated on this day of  1987. 
For The Union: 
Gary Moore, Executive Director 
Karen Block, Committee Member 
Rick Harvey, Committee Member 
David Malcolm, Committee Member 
Chuck McKenney, Committee Member 
Evalyn Poff, Committee Member 
Tom Bartlett, Area Representative 
For The Employer: 
Allan M. Weinstein, Secretary (Board of Trustees) 
David K. Y. Tang, Chairman (Board of Trustees) 
 
   * PREAMBLE 
   * ARTICLE 1 -  UNION RECOGNITION 
   * ARTICLE 2 -  UNION MEMBERSHIP, ORIENTATION AND REPRESENTATION 
   * ARTICLE 3 -  NONDISCRIMINATION 
   * ARTICLE 4 -  EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 
   * ARTICLE 5 -  UNION/MANAGEMENT MEETINGS 
   * ARTICLE 6 -  SHIFT SCHEDULES 
   * ARTICLE 7 -  HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME 
   * ARTICLE 8 -  PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
   * ARTICLE 9 -  CAREER AND PROMOTIONAL OPPORTUNITIES 
   * ARTICLE 10 - SAFETY 
   * ARTICLE 11 - LEAVE FOR UNION-SPONSORED ACTIVITIES 
   * ARTICLE 12 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
   * ARTICLE 13 - BULLETIN BOARDS 
   * ARTICLE 14 - REDUCTION-IN-FORCE 
   * ARTICLE 15 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
   * ARTICLE 16 - EMPLOYER RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
   * ARTICLE 17 - SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVINGS CLAUSE 
   * ARTICLE 18 - CLASS SPECIFICATIONS AND SALARY SCHEDULE 
   * ARTICLE 19 - SALARY SURVEY 
   * ARTICLE 20 - TERMS, AMENDMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS OF BASIC AGREEMENT 
   * EXHIBIT D - LAYOFF PROCEDURES OF TESC 
   * ATTACHMENTS 
 
PREAMBLE 
PREAMBLE 
Pursuant to provisions of RCW 28B.16, Higher Education Personnel Law, and 
WAC 251-14 of the Higher Education Personnel Board Rules, this constitutes 
an agreement between the Board of Trustees of The Evergreen State College, 
hereinafter called the Employer and the Washington Federation of State 
Employees, AFL-CIO, hereinafter called the Union. 
 
The parties agree that it has been and will continue to be in their mutual 
interest and purpose to promote effective employee/employer cooperation; to 
provide fair and reasonable working conditions, to ensure effective methods 
for the prompt adjustment of differences, misunderstandings and disputes; 
and, as required by state law and HEPB rules, to provide for meaningful 
collective bargaining between the Board of Trustees and the Union over 
matters that the Board of Trustees may lawfully exercise discretion. 
 
Article 1 - Union Recognition 
 

The Employer, in accordance with action by the Higher Education Personnel 
Board on May 21, 1982 (oral) and with order signed by the Higher Education 
Personnel Board dated June 29, 1981, under provisions of HEPB Rules, WAC 
251-14-040, and by certification by the Director, Higher Education 
Personnel Board on July 31, 1981 (Exhibits A, B, and C, respectively) 
recognizes the Washington Federation of State Employees, AFL-CIO as the 
exclusive representative of all employees in The Evergreen State College 
Bargaining Unit. 
 
The unit to which this agreement is applicable, was defined by the Higher 
Education Personnel Board on June 29, 1981, and modified on February 18, 
1982 or as may be subsequently amended. This unit presently includes all 
classified employees allocated to non-supervisory classes and permissive 
supervisory classes where the positions do not carry supervisory 
responsibilities in the following organizational sections: 
 
   * Section 07 - Business Services; 
   * Section 08 - Computer Services; 
   * Section 12 - Facilities; 
   * Section 13 - Library; 
   * Section 14 - Campus Recreation; 
   * Section 17 - Student Services; 
   * Section 18 - Bookstore; 
   * Section 21 - Academic Deans; 
   * Section 23 - Instructional Faculty Support; 
   * Section 28 - Cooperative Education. 
 
Back to Top 
 
Article 2 - Union Membership Orientation and Representation 
 
Pursuant to RCW 28B.16 and by certification of the Higher Education 
Personnel Board as set forth in Exhibit B, a bargaining unit exists. In 
recognition of the Union Shop, as certified by the Higher Education 
Personnel Board in accordance with WAC 251-14, Collective Bargaining, all 
employees included within the bargaining unit shall become members of the 
Union or arrange to pay the Union a fee equivalent to the Union's regular 
monthly dues within thirty (30) calendar days following the employee's date 
of employment. Membership dues for all eligible employees shall be 
collected by the appointing authority through payroll deduction upon 
authorization by the employee on the prescribed forms supplied by the 
Union. The Employer shall provide for payroll deduction of Union dues upon 
authorization by the employee. Payroll deduction authorization cards 
submitted to the Employer by the fifteenth (15th) day of the month shall be 
recognized as effective for that month. In order to cancel the payroll 
deduction, and employee must file a written notice with the Payroll Office 
and the Union (Washington Federation of State Employees, 1212 Jefferson 
Street, Suite 300, Olympia, WA 98501) thirty (30) days prior to the 
effective date of such cancellation. Once each month, the Employer will 
transmit to the Union a copy of the current payroll deduction list for 
those in the bargaining unit. The Union will be provided a copy of new 
employee letters for those in the bargaining unit, and a copy of this 
contract will be mailed with each new employee letter. Twice each year, the 
Employer will provide to the Union a list of all employees in the 
bargaining unit upon request. 
 
As part of their orientation, all new employees when hired in a position 

included in the bargaining unit, will be informed by the Employer of the 
Union's exclusive recognition, advised of the requirement for membership in 
this Union Shop, and provided with a copy of this Agreement and a Union 
membership application. 
 
The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to designate Union Stewards 
who shall be permitted to devote reasonable amounts of time during normal 
working hours to investigate complaints and process grievances, and to 
carry out their representational responsibilities as provided for in this 
agreement. 
 
Time off for processing grievances shall be granted to a union steward by 
his/her supervisor following a request, but consideration shall always be 
given to the current job responsibilities. If permission for time off 
cannot be immediately granted, the supervisor will arrange for time off at 
the earliest possible time thereafter. Grievances that result from working 
conditions that risk an employee's safety shall be given priority over job 
responsibilities. 
 
The Union shall prevail upon all employees in the bargaining unit, and 
especially union stewards, to make a diligent and serious attempt to 
resolve complaints at the lowest possible level. The Employer, likewise, 
shall prevail upon its supervisory personnel to cooperate fully with the 
Union stewards and other Union representatives in the speedy resolution of 
any grievances that may arise. 
 
Union stewards shall normally process grievances within their area of 
jurisdiction. 
 
The Union agrees to periodically submit an up-to-date list to the Office of 
Employee Relations indicating the names of all Union Stewards and 
alternates, their work locations and jurisdiction. In any event, said list 
shall be submitted at least annually and changes will be submitted as they 
occur. 
 
The parties understand that the employee and employer most often will 
resolve their concerns informally, but the parties recognize the right of 
the Employee to request representation on any matter of concern adversely 
affecting their conditions of employment. To that end, whenever practical 
the employee and/or representative shall advise the supervisor that 
representation will be present so that the supervisor will be able to 
arrange other appropriate representation to meet with the aggrieved 
employee(s). The Area Representative(s) to the College will make every 
attempt to notify the Employee Relations Office of their intended visit. If 
a critical operation is in process, the Area Representative may be asked to 
delay the contact. 
 
Area Representative(s) visiting college facilities shall engage in 
organizing activities only during non-work periods and in areas that will 
not disrupt work or other college activities. 
 
Article 3 - Non-discrimination 
 
It is agreed that the Employer and the Union are obligated to provide 
equality of opportunity, consideration and treatment for all employees in 
the bargaining unit in all phases of the employment process. 
 

The parties individually agree that they will not engage in any act or 
practice or pursue any policy which results directly or indirectly in 
coercion or discrimination against any employee because of age, sex, race, 
national origin, handicap, color, creed, marital status, religion, sexual 
orientation, or political beliefs, (as those phrases are defined in 42 USE 
20000e and RCW 49.60 et. seq.). 
 
The Employer and the Union agree on the need for an affirmative action 
approach within the concepts of Executive Order 81-02, Chapter 174-109 WAC 
and the Higher Education Personnel Board Rules to review and correct 
inequities where they exist in the employment and promotional process. 
 
Members of the bargaining unit agree to work within the Union to promote 
affirmative action goals and principles. 
 
The members of the bargaining unit may contact the agency personnel office 
or payroll office without restraint or reprisal in regard to any matter 
appropriate to either office. 
 
Back to Top 
 
Article 4 - Employee Rights 
 
The off-campus private and personal life and activities of the employee are 
not legitimate grounds or cause for disciplinary, discriminatory or other 
comparable actions initiated by the Employer unless representing a conflict 
of interest as set forth in state law or unless directly detrimental to the 
employee's work performance. In the event of charges or complaints made to 
the Employer against any employee, except where there is a clear and 
immediate danger to persons or property, no Employer disciplinary actions 
shall be initiated in response to such charge or complaint until the 
employee has been apprised of the allegation and has had reasonable 
opportunity to respond; in which instance, the employee shall be informed 
of the identity of the person or parties making such charges and 
allegations. 
 
If the Employer determines to bring disciplinary action against an employee 
for any reason, the employee shall be apprised of rights of appeal, WAC 
251-10-120, and rights of representation as provided for in this Article 
and Article 12 - Grievance Procedure, of this contract. Also, at the time 
that the employee is apprised of a pending disciplinary action, the Union 
representative will be advised in time to provide representation. 
 
Each employee or designated representative (with written authorization from 
the employee) shall have access to the employee's personnel file and shall 
be supplied a free initial copy of any material. 
 
Each employee shall have only one official personnel file, which shall be 
confidential, in the Personnel Office at The Evergreen State College. All 
other files that contain employee information shall be for record keeping 
purposes and shall not be considered to be a personnel file. Therefore, any 
material not in the official file shall not be used for personnel action - 
e.g. promotions, suspension, disciplinary action. 
 
Personal notes maintained by supervisors are not considered to be files. 
However, supervisor notes shall be considered to be invalid after the 
employee's evaluation has been prepared. 

 
All material of a derogatory nature must be shared with the employee before 
being entered into any file regardless of the custodian of these records - 
(including payroll, departmental unit, or personnel offices), with the 
exception of material obtained through assurances of confidentiality at the 
time of original appointment. 
 
Material to be inserted in an employee's personnel file shall first be 
shown to the employee. The employee shall be given the opportunity to read 
the material and to respond appropriately by written rebuttal and/or to 
challenge the appropriateness or validity of including the material in the 
file. The employee may grieve the material through the grievance procedure 
- Article 12 of this Agreement. 
 
After one year an employee can request the removal of any non-routine 
adverse document from the official and/or department file(s). If the 
request is denied, the employee is guaranteed due process for removal. 
 
Article 5 - Union/Management Meetings 
 
The purpose of this article is to establish an orderly procedure for 
initiating discussions when either party anticipates or desires changes in 
the working conditions, affecting the employees covered by this agreement. 
These discussions shall take place sufficiently in advance of intended 
implementation, to provide the Union time to consider the issues, develop a 
position, and/or advance alternative proposals. There is hereby established 
a joint Union/Management Committee.The Committee shall be composed of not 
more than five (5) representatives designated by the Union, plus not more 
than two (2) staff members of the Union, the chairperson designated by the 
President of the College, and members of the college staff, not to exceed 
the number of Union representatives and staff. 
 
Meetings of the Union/Management Committee may be requested by either party 
and shall be scheduled at a mutually agreeable time, but not later than 
fifteen (15) working days from the date the request is made. Requests for 
such meetings shall be made in writing and shall contain subjects for 
discussion. Such agenda items may be supplemented by additions from the 
other party. The Employer shall furnish the Union with a copy of the final 
agenda five (5) working days prior to the date of the meeting when 
practical. The agenda shall be limited to items which are of a group nature 
rather than issues of individual interest and concern. 
 
Minutes will be taken by a person designated by the chairperson. The 
minutes shall consist of the topics discussed and disposition of each. 
Copies of the minutes shall be reviewed and signed jointly by the 
chairperson and a member of the staff of the Washington Federation of State 
Employees, AFL- CIO, who participated in the meeting. These minutes shall 
be available for signature no later than ten (10) working days from such 
meeting. The disposition of matters covered in the Union/Management meeting 
shall not contradict, add to, or otherwise modify the terms and conditions 
of this basic agreement. Neither party shall make unilateral changes in the 
items of agreement. 
 
Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to require the parties to 
reach agreements, however, agreements reached will be supported by the 
parties. Matters unresolved by the Union/Management Committee, which meet 
the definition of a grievance as defined in Article 12, may be submitted 

for review and resolution at a step under Article 12 - Grievance and 
Arbitration Procedures, that is mutually agreeable to both parties. If 
there is no mutual agreement, the grievance should begin at Step One. 
 
Back to Top 
 
Article 6 - Shift Schedules 
 
The matter of schedules shall be appropriate items for the joint 
Union/Management Committee meeting. Supervised shift work assignments shall 
be based on employee seniority: employees with longest term of service at 
The Evergreen State College to receive choice of shifts when comparable 
duties are involved. Units working on rotation shift assignments are 
excluded from the above provision. 
 
Article 7 - Hours Of Work and Overtime 
 
Standard Workday/Regular Work Schedule 
The standard workday for full-time bargaining unit employees shall consist 
of eight (8) hours work within a 24-hour period with a minimum of thirty 
(30) minutes for the meal period on the employee's own time. The regular 
full-time work schedule shall consist of five (5) consecutive days within a 
seven (7) day period. When the industry standard provides that employees 
may be required to take their meal at the work station, this provision 
shall not apply. 
 
Part-Time Schedule 
A part-time schedule is any deviation from the full-time schedule which 
includes twenty (20) or more hours per week but less than forty (40) hours 
per week in seven (7) consecutive days. Except in cases of an institutional 
emergency, part-time employees will not be expected to work in excess of 
eight (8) hours a day. 
 
Alternate Work Schedule 
Operational necessity or employee convenience may require positions and/or 
classes that are normally designated regular work schedule to work on 
alternate full-time forty (40) hours work schedule (other than five (5) 
workdays of eight (8) hours in a seven (7) day period), e.g. 4-40 or other 
approved flex-time schedule). 
 
Institution Work Week 
Evergreen has a work week that begins on Sunday at 12:00 a.m. midnight and 
ends on Saturday at 11:59 p.m. 
 
Schedule Changes 
Changes to a scheduled work period employee's assigned hours may be made 
under the following condition(s): 
 
          (1) For temporary changes of work hours within the assigned week: 
 
          (a) By providing two calendar days notice to the employee. (The 
          day notification is given constitutes a day of notice); or 
 
          (b) Because of emergency conditions; or 
 
          (c) When the change is requested by the employee and approved by 
          the employing official; or 

 
          (d) For operational convenience (instances where the conditions 
          above do not exist), in which case the employee shall have the 
          right to work his/her regularly assigned schedule in addition to 
          the modified schedule (in accordance with the provisions of WAC 
          251-09030) unless: 
                    (i) There is not work; or 
 
                    (ii) There is a safety hazard to the employee or 
                    others; or 
 
                    (iii)The resulting total hours worked would exceed one 
                    and one-half of the employeeís regular shift. 
 
          (2) For changes in work hours or shift extending beyond seven 
          calendar days for an indefinite period: 
 
          (a) By providing seven calendar days notice to the employee. (The 
          day notification is given constitutes a day of notice); or 
 
          (b) Because of emergency conditions; or 
 
          (c) When the change is requested by the employee and approved by 
          the employing official; or 
 
          (d) For operational convenience (instances where the conditions 
          above do not exist), in which case the employee shall be paid 
          premium pay (at time and one-half) for each hour outside of the 
          regular shift (pro rata for part-time employees) for a maximum of 
          seven calendar days from the date of the notice of the schedule 
          change. 
 
Call Back Pay 
When a scheduled work period employee has left the institution grounds and 
is called to return to the work station outside of regularly scheduled 
hours to handle emergency situations which could not be anticipated, he/she 
shall receive two hours bonus pay plus time actually worked. 
 
The bonus pay shall be compensated at the regular rate; time worked shall 
be compensated at time and one-half. Time worked immediately preceding the 
regular shift does not constitute call back, provided time worked does not 
exceed two hours or notice of at least eight hours has been given. An 
employee on standby status called to return to the workstation does not 
qualify for call back pay. 
 
Rest Periods 
Employees in the bargaining unit shall be granted a rest period within each 
half of the workday, not to exceed fifteen minutes for each four (4) hours 
of work time. 
 
Overtime 
Employees qualify for overtime compensation under the following conditions: 
 
          (1) For regular work scheduled full-time employees, work in 
          excess of eight (8) hours in a workday or forty (40) hours in a 
          workweek; 
 

          (2) For part-time employees, work in excess of forty (40) hours 
          in a workweek. 
 
          (3) For alternate work scheduled full-time employees, work in 
          excess of the assigned work shift, or work in excess of forty 
          (40) hours in a workweek. 
 
          (4) All time that the employee is in a pay status, such as sick 
          leave or vacation leave, shall be used for purposes of 
          calculating the workday and workweek. 
 
          (5) Overtime work must be approved in advance by the Employer and 
          shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the 
          employee's regular rate. In lieu of overtime payment, the 
          employee may request equal compensatory time off. Such 
          compensatory time off shall be granted at a time which is 
          mutually acceptable to the employee and supervisor. 
 
          (6) Employees in excepted positions will be compensated for work 
          in excess of an average of fifty (50) hours a week in any month 
          at time and one-half. (WAC 251-09-030 (6)) All overtime work by 
          excepted employees requires prior approval by the respective 
          supervisor. 
 
          (7) Whenever overtime work is required, supervision, 
          shall determine the employees needed to work,such 
          overtime on the basis of their qualifications and 
          availability. It shall be the supervisor's 
          responsibility to distribute overtime equally among 
          qualified and available employees within the work unit. 
 
          (8) A record of overtime hours worked by each employee shall be 
          kept by the Employer, and such record of overtime may be reviewed 
          upon request by the Union. 
 
          (9) Overtime shall be compiled on a monthly basis and, if salary 
          payment is made, shall be paid to the employee no later than the 
          fifteenth day of the month following the month in which it was 
          accrued, provided the Employer's Payroll Office has received the 
          time cards authorizing overtime payment by the first day of said 
          month. 
 
          (10) Compensatory time may be accumulated during a biennial 
          period, but ordinarily shall be liquidated before biennial 
          closing, June 30. Usage of accumulated compensatory time may be 
          directed by the supervisor within the last 60 days of a biennium. 
          Exceptions to usage at biennial closing shall be possible by 
          written petition to the appointing authority in the unit. 
 
Article 8 - Performance Evaluation Performance Evaluation: 
 
(1) Performance evaluations shall be conducted not less than annually for 
each employee and shall be signed by the immediate supervisor before being 
presented to the employee. 
(2) A discussion of the evaluation shall be held at the time of the 
employee's receipt. The employee may at that time choose to retain a copy 
of the evaluation for further consideration or drafting a response. Further 

discussion of an evaluation and employee's response shall be scheduled at a 
mutually agreeable time within ten (10) working days of original receipt of 
evaluation. If discussion results in a change in ratings, a new evaluation 
shall be prepared reflecting the agreed upon ratings and shall be signed by 
all parties to the evaluation. 
(3) Copies of final evaluations, responses and related documents shall be 
filed immediately in the employee's official personnel file. 
(4) Employees shall be advised of their rights as guaranteed in this 
article and under Article 4 Employee Rights. 
(5) The Employer and the Union agree to insure the confidentiality of 
discussion related to performance. Discussions of performance or alleged 
lack thereof shall be confined to the supervisor and those legitimately a 
party to the performance evaluation procedure. Examples of those 
legitimately a party to the procedure include: 
 
   * Employee 
   * Shop Steward 
   * Area Union Representative 
   * Council Attorney 
   * Supervisor 
   * Department Head 
   * Appointing Authority 
   * Personnel Director 
   * Assistant Attorney General 
   * Outside Counsel or Other Representative 
 
(6) Position descriptions for each employee will be reviewed and/or revised 
when appropriate on a yearly basis at the time of evaluation. The originals 
of both the evaluation and position description are to be placed in the 
employee's official file in the Personnel Office with any rebuttal deemed 
necessary to be attached. 
 
Article 9 - Career and Promotional Opportunities 
 
The Employer and the Union recognize the need for development and training 
of employees to fulfill requirements for qualified staff to maintain 
efficiency of operations and service. Both parties subscribe to the 
principle of career ladders and development of the employees to prepare 
them for advancement whether or not such advancement is within the service 
of The Evergreen State College. 
 
The Employer agrees to assume the responsibility to offer training to 
employees in a wide range of areas including career opportunities, 
personnel administration and relations as college resources permit. 
 
The Union will be provided with copies of employment opportunity bulletins 
for classified employees. To provide for fair and equitable opportunities, 
employment bulletins shall be mailed to an employee in each of the 
buildings and sections of the Bargaining Unit on campus. Further, this 
employee in each section and building will be given the responsibility for 
posting the announcements on designated bulletin boards. 
 
Employees assigned to a job grouping or series shall each receive a copy of 
all promotional position announcements in their assigned job groupings or 
series, e.g. Maintenance Mechanic I's would receive all promotional 
announcements for skilled trades positions; Office Assistant II's would 
receive all promotional announcements for Secretary I, II, and III, as well 

as the Office Assistant III's and Program Assistants. 
 
The employer shall maintain a referral system for employee requests for 
transfer, voluntary demotion, promotion. When a vacancy occurs, first 
consideration will be given to all potential internal candidates before a 
determination is made as to how to recruit for the position. Should the 
Employer decide to interview transfer/demotion candidates, all such 
candidates who have expressed an interest in the position will be 
interviewed. All such candidates who are interviewed, but not appointed, 
will be notified by the Employer of the decision. 
 
Promotional opportunity bulletins will be open for a minimum of nine 
calendar days. In the event the employer determines there may not be enough 
promotional candidates for a complete promotional register, Employee 
Relations may post simultaneously open-competitive opportunity bulletins to 
establish the necessary register. 
 
A Staff Development Committee shall be charged to ensure that employees 
have a voice in the use of institutional funds allocated for staff 
development. The committee membership shall be composed of nine members, 
two of whom shall be chosen by the Union. Every effort shall be made to 
have a balanced representation of parts of the College, gender, and 
ethnicity. The committee shall be chaired by the Director of Employee 
Relations. Distribution of funds shall be based on an annual survey of 
campus employees and further based on affirmative votes of the majority of 
the committee. The distribution of funds shall be on a quarterly basis 
after a call for applications for funds, the committee will notify the 
campus and the Union of the projects and programs on which the funds were 
expended the previous quarter. 
 
Priority for funding shall take into account institutional skill 
requirements, longevity of employment, alternative funding sources 
available to the applicant, applicability of the proposal to the employee's 
current position and promotional ladder, and length of time since the 
employee has received a development opportunity. 
 
Recognizing that worthwhile academic offerings take place during the work 
day, Evergreen encourages its employees to participate in educational 
offerings. To facilitate such participation, EAC 174-112 will govern 
release time for permanent classified employees. There may be situations 
where an employee cannot be released. When negotiations fail, the grievance 
procedure should be followed. The release time policy may be a subject for 
discussion at Union/Management Committee meetings. 
 
Back to Top 
 
Article 10 - Safety 
 
All work shall be performed in conformity with applicable safety standards 
called for by the Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act (WISHA) and 
approved and adopted by the Department of Labor and Industries. Any 
employee who is given a work assignment which he/she has reason to believe 
may require unsafe procedures shall immediately notify a supervisor or shop 
steward and shall not be required to perform an allegedly unsafe assignment 
until the condition has been reviewed by a Union Steward and a higher level 
of supervision. If the matter is not resolved satisfactorily, the 
supervisor or employee may request a decision from the Department of Labor 

and Industries. 
 
Employees in the bargaining unit shall report immediately to their 
supervisor any apparent unsafe working conditions. Employees shall use 
required safety devices and perform work according to required safety 
procedures. 
 
Joint employee/employer safety committee(s) shall be formed in accordance 
with WISHA requirements. Bargaining unit employees shall be appropriately 
represented on any departmental safety committee(s) dealing with bargaining 
unit work and work areas. 
 
In accordance with WISHA requirements the Employer and the Union shall work 
together to annually conduct elections to elect bargaining unit employees 
to the committee(s). 
 
Article 11 - Leave For Union-Sponsored Activities 
 
The Employer agrees to allow employees selected or elected by the Union 
time off with no loss in pay, to attend union-sponsored activities dealing 
with education and training of employee representatives in the 
administration of this agreement, Higher Education Personnel Board rules, 
The Evergreen State College rules or regulations, and the State Higher 
Education Personnel Law. 
 
   * A. Union designated stewards and alternates shall be allowed eight (8) 
     hours per year per steward/ alternate without loss of pay to 
     participate in the Union Steward training program. Such time off must 
     be approved by the Employer and will be contingent upon the employer's 
     ability to provide adequate personnel for proper work coverage during 
     the requested time off. The Union shall submit to the Employer, at 
     least two (2) weeks in advance, the names of those union 
     stewards/alternates whom the Union wishes to have attend a particular 
     training or refresher course. 
 
     B. Union employees who are elected by the local may be allowed eight 
     (8) hours per year (per elected member) without loss of pay to attend 
     and participate in delegate-related Union business functions, such as 
     the Washington Federation of State Employees bi-annual convention, the 
     AFSCME bi-annual convention or the Washington State AFL-CIO bi-annual 
     convention, contingent upon the Employer's ability to provide adequate 
     personnel for proper work coverage during the requested time off. The 
     Union shall submit to the Employer, at least two (2) weeks in advance, 
     the names of those employees elected whom the Union wishes to have 
     attend a particular convention. 
     C. Employees who wish to attend or participate in Union business, 
     functions or programs, such as meetings, union steward training, 
     seminars and other Union sanctioned business, may do so with the 
     approval of the employer and such time off shall be accounted for by 
     the employee by use of the following: 
 
        o 1) Use of accrued compensatory time as appropriate. 
          2) Use of accrued vacation time in accordance with WAC 251-22. 
          3) Take leave of absence without pay in accordance with WAC 
          251-22. 
 
Back to Top 

 
Article 12 - Grievance Procedure Definition 
 
A grievance is defined as a contention of misapplication, violation, or 
inequitable application of the Higher Education Personnel Law, Higher 
Education Personnel Board Rules, State Compensation Plan, Articles of this 
Agreement, and The Evergreen State College published policies and operating 
procedures pertaining to personnel. In addition, claims of inequitable, 
inconsistent, or unreasonable treatment may, for the purpose of this 
article, constitute a grievance. All reference to "employee" in this 
article shall mean employee and/or a representative. 
 
In accordance with WAC 251-14-060(2), if any action grieved is also 
appealed to the Higher Education Personnel Board or is filed for the 
hearing through an unfair labor practice charge, the mediation and 
arbitration procedures specified herein shall not apply. These actions will 
be subject to the Higher Education Personnel Board appeals procedure. 
 
It is the desire and intent of the parties, through the following grievance 
procedure, to provide an orderly and timely adjudication of grievances. 
Within this spirit, the procedure is not a substitute for or in any way to 
inhibit open communications between the employee and supervision. 
 
Employee Grievance Rights 
Any employee(s) who believes he/she has been aggrieved may personally seek 
relief from that condition by filing a grievance, irrespective of any 
supervisor's opinion of the grievance's validity. In the presentation of 
grievances, the employee shall be safe from restraint, interference, 
discrimination or reprisal. 
 
HEPB Appeal Rights 
Use of the Grievance Procedure in disciplinary actions shall not waive the 
right or responsibility of those employees covered by the Higher Education 
Personnel Board Rules to appeal to the Higher Education Personnel Board 
within thirty calendar days after the effective date of the action appealed 
in accordance with WAC 251-12 of the Board Rules. 
 
Employee Representation 
The Union as exclusive representative of the bargaining unit employees is 
the responsible representative of said employees in grievance matters. 
However, an employee who elects to have an outside party represent him/her 
in a grievance hearing or arbitration, shall bear the cost for such 
representation. The Union shall be considered an interested party to the 
proceedings in the event it is not requested to represent the employee in 
conformity with WAC 251-14-040(6). 
 
Time Limitations 
An extension of the time limitations as stipulated in the respective steps 
below, may be obtained by mutual agreement in writing by the parties. 
Failure of the employee to comply with the time limitations without a 
request for time extension shall constitute withdrawal of the grievance. 
Failure of the Employer to comply with the time limitations without a 
request for time extension shall establish the right of the employee to 
proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure. 
 
Meetings 
Meetings and discussions on grievances held with the supervisor and/or the 

dean/director, shall normally be held during the College's regular business 
hours, or at a mutually agreed upon time. No deduction or addition to pay 
shall be made for the grievant and/or the shop steward for reasonable time 
spent in these discussions. 
 
Grievance Withdrawal 
A grievance may be withdrawn at any time and if withdrawn shall not be 
resubmitted. 
 
Steps of Grievance Procedure 
All grievances shall be processed in accordance with the following 
procedure: 
 
   * Step One: Oral Presentation to Supervisor. Within thirty (30) calendar 
     days of the occurrence of a situation, condition or action which 
     caused the grievance the employee(s) affected and/or the shop steward 
     and/or Union representative shall orally present the grievance to the 
     employee's immediate supervisor for resolution. In the event a given 
     grievance is directed against the employee's immediate supervisor, 
     said grievance may be presented to the next higher level of 
     supervision. Every effort shall be made by all parties to resolve the 
     grievance at this level. For purposes of clarification, the supervisor 
     may ask the employee to put his/her grievance in writing. If a 
     satisfactory settlement is not reached within fourteen (14) calendar 
     days following the date of presentation to supervision, and the 
     employee wishes to pursue the matter further, the employee may submit 
     the grievance as provided in Step 2. 
 
     Step Two: Written Presentation To Dean Or Director. At step 2, the 
     grievance shall be reduced to writing and be submitted to the Dean or 
     Director of the unit, with a copy to the Director of Employee 
     Relations, and to the supervisor within (14) calendar days following 
     the time period provided for resolution in step 1. The grievance shall 
     include the following: 
 
        o 1. Detailed statement of facts; 
          2. Contentions of the grievant; 
          3. Particular contractual provision(s), HEPB rule(s), or 
          institutional policy involved (if known); and 
          4. Remedy sought. 
 
     The Dean or Director shall arrange a meeting, with the employee and/or 
     representative and other appropriate parties within five (5) working 
     days of receipt of the grievance when possible. 
     Every effort shall be made by all parties involved to resolve the 
     dispute at this level. In any event, the Dean/Director will provide a 
     written answer to the employee and the Union within five (5) working 
     days after the grievance meeting. 
     If the written decision of the Dean/Director is not satisfactory to 
     the employee, the affected employee and/or his/her representative may, 
     within ten (10) working days of receipt of the written decision, file 
     the written grievance with the employee's respective Vice President 
     for resolution at Step 3. 
 
     Step 3: Vice President Or Designee Review. The Vice President or 
     designee will arrange to meet with the employee and/or representative, 
     the dean/director and other appropriate parties to attempt to resolve 

     the matter within ten (10) working days following the date the 
     grievance is filed. Within five (5) working days following the 
     meeting, the Vice President or designee shall provide a written 
     response regarding the decision to the employee and the Union. 
     In the event the Vice President or designee is unable to effect a 
     satisfactory resolution to the grievance within the required time 
     period, the employee and/or his/her representative may submit, within 
     thirty (30) calendar days, the grievance to the Director of the Higher 
     Education Personnel Board for mediation. 
     Mediation rules and procedures established by the Higher Education 
     Personnel Board shall apply. If mediation fails to resolve the 
     grievance within a reasonable time, the grievance, unless withdrawn by 
     the grievant, may then be submitted by either party within thirty (30) 
     calendar days from the mediator's report to the Higher Education 
     Personnel Board for arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted in 
     accordance with applicable Board rules. 
     The scope of the Board's decision shall not extend beyond a judgment 
     as to the proper interpretation or application of the terms of this 
     Agreement, the rules of the Higher Education Personnel Board, or the 
     Employer's written personnel rules or policies, whichever would be 
     applicable in a given case. 
 
Article 13 - Bulletin Boards 
 
The Union will be given access to bulletin boards for the purpose of 
posting information in places easily accessible to the membership. All 
postings must have the initials of the Union representatives for approved 
posting. 
 
Back to Top 
 
ARTICLE 14 - Reduction in Force 
 
The reduction-in-force procedure for The Evergreen State College is 
attached as Exhibit D. 
 
If, at any time, either Management or the Union desire or find it necessary 
to modify the reduction-in-force procedure, it shall be made an item for a 
Union/Management meeting. 
 
Article 15 - Employee Benefits 
 
Childcare: 
The Employer agrees to charge a Disappearing Task Force (DTF) to explore 
childcare options for its employees and to report on ways that the College 
could provide its support to improve these services. The draft charge 
including size, composition, and provision for union selected members of 
the DTF, will be subject to review by the Union/Management Committee. The 
DTF Chairperson will present an interim report to the Union/Management 
Committee no later than January, 1988. 
 
Parking: 
The Employer agrees to limit the use of parking fund revenues to the 
operation and maintenance of the parking function. Subsidies to the bus 
system, security and other functions will not be funded from the parking 
fund. The current rates will remain in effect for the 1987-89 biennium. A 
new set of pro forma financial statements will be presented to the 

Union/Management Committee in October, 1987. 
 
Recreational Facilities: 
The Employer agrees to explore ways in which the College Recreation Center 
and its programs could be made more accessible to classified staff. After 
full consideration of financial and other implications, the Employer will 
make a report to the Union/Employer Committee. 
 
Back to Top 
 
Article 16 - Employer Rights and Responsibilities 
 
It is understood and agreed by the parties that the Employer possesses the 
right to operate the College so as to carry out the statutory mandate, 
mission, and/or goals assigned to the College. The Employer retains the 
rights and obligations, pursuant to applicable laws and regulations or as 
modified by this Agreement, and the Union hereby acknowledges that the 
Employer shall: 
 
   * 1. Direct employees covered by this Agreement. 
     2. Hire, promote, demote, transfer, assign and retain employees of the 
     Unit and suspend or discharge for cause. 
     3. Relieve employees from duty because of a lack of work or other 
     legitimate reasons. 
     4. Maintain and promote the efficiency and economy of government 
     operations entrusted. 
     5. Determine the method, means, number and kinds of personnel by which 
     operations undertaken by employees in the Unit are to be conducted. 
 
     The retention of these rights does not preclude any employee from 
     filing a grievance or seeking a review of the exercise of these 
     rights. 
 
Article 17 - Subordination of Agreement and Saving Clause 
 
It is understood, in accordance with WAC 251-14-060(6), that any provisions 
of this Agreement shall not prevail if in conflict with the Higher 
Education Personnel Board Rules, the Higher Education Personnel Law or 
other applicable law. 
 
Any provision of this Agreement which may be adjudged to be unlawful or 
invalid by the Higher Education Personnel Board or by a court of law shall 
thereafter become null and void, but all other provisions of this Agreement 
shall continue in full force and effect. 
 
Upon request from either party, the Union and Employer negotiating 
committees shall commence negotiations within thirty (30) days for the 
purpose of coming to agreement on a substitute provision for that which was 
declared unlawful or invalid. 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit or reduce the rights 
and privileges of the parties except where specifically modified herein. 
 
Article 18 - Class Specifications and Salary Schedules 
 
Both the Employer and the Union shall make reasonable effort to notify the 
other party prior to submitting any addition, modification, and/or deletion 

of a class specification within the bargaining unit or salary schedule to 
the Board for approval. Such notification shall be for the purpose of 
considering any objections which may be presented by the other party. 
 
Article 19 - Salary Survey 
 
Prior to the formation of suggestions and policy on salary survey results, 
the Employer shall make reasonable effort to discuss them with the Union 
for the purpose of attempting to make a joint statement to the Higher 
Education Personnel Board, if agreement can be reached. 
 
The Union shall make reasonable effort to notify the Employer of any 
intention to challenge the Employer's salary recommendations in order to 
discuss the reasons for such challenge prior to consideration by the Board. 
 
Back to Top 
 
Article 20 - Terms, Amendments and Modifications of Basic Agreement 
 
All provisions of the Agreement shall continue to be in force and effect 
for two years following the date of signing. Either party may recommend any 
or all parts of the Agreement to be reopened for negotiation no sooner than 
90 calendar days nor later than 60 calendar days prior to the termination 
date by submission in writing to the other party of such recommendation. 
Should neither party to this Agreement file notice requesting negotiations, 
the Agreement shall be automatically extended for subsequent twelve (12) 
month periods. 
 
The Agreement may be reopened at any time during its effective term by the 
mutual consent of both parties or as required due to changes in applicable 
laws, orders or policies enacted after the date of this Agreement. All 
requests for negotiations or conferences shall be in writing and shall 
specify items proposed for consideration. 
 
Neither party to this Agreement will make unilateral changes in the terms 
of the basic or supplemental agreements pending the settlement of the 
outstanding differences through negotiation, mediation or arbitration. 
 
 
 
Exhibit D 
 
Layoff Procedures of The Evergreen State College 
 
In accordance with applicable current and subsequently amended state law, 
and provisions of the Higher Education Personnel Board Rules for classified 
staff employees, this procedure will be in effect should layoff of 
classified staff become necessary due to (1) lack of funds, or (2) 
curtailment of work. (See WAC 251-10-030 and WAC 174-109-100 (2)) 
 
When layoff becomes necessary: 
 
The appointing authority will determine those positions to be eliminated or 
reduced in either number of hours per month or number of months per year 
and will inform the Director of Employee Relations, in writing, citing the 
reason for the layoff (one of the above two reasons). 
 

The Director of Employee Relations will determine the layoff seniority of 
those affected employees (adjusting for Veteran's Preference and leaves of 
absence on a day-for-day basis deduction), and will determine any options 
in lieu of layoff to which the employee is entitled. 
 
The employee will receive a minimum of 18 days written notification: 3 
working days (72 hours) in which to consider the available options and 15 
calendar days before the employee will be separated from the payroll. 
 
The layoff notification will be signed by the appointing authority, with a 
witness present, by the Director of Employee Relations and by the employee 
in the presence of the Director of Employee Relations or his/her designee. 
 
Should no options in lieu of layoff be available to the employee, the 
Director of Employee Relations or his/her designee will, in writing, advise 
the employee as to the specific layoff list(s) for which the employee 
qualifies upon separation. 
 
The Director of Employee Relations shall give a copy of the layoff 
procedures, the layoff units, the layoff option selection sheet, and a fact 
sheet to the employee on the first day of the option selection period and 
inform him/her of the right of appeal to the Higher Education Personnel 
Board in accordance with WAC 251-12-080. 
 
Failure to deliver the option selection sheet to the Office of Employee 
Relations by 5:00 p.m. of the third day of notification will result in the 
placement of the employee's name on the layoff list in the classification 
(or series of classifications, if applicable) in which the layoff occurred. 
 
Date 
Layoff Notification 
 
TO: _ 
 
FROM: 
 
Director of Employee Relations 
 
APPOINTING AUTHORITY: 
 
WITNESS: 
 
You are scheduled for layoff on because of 
 
Attached please find: 
 
     1. Layoff Procedures 
     2. Layoff Units 
     3. Employee Fact Sheet 
     4. Layoff Option Sheet 
 
Please review the enclosed and make an appointment to discuss your options 
prior to 5:00 p.m. on . 
 
Failure to do so will result in placement of your name on the institution 
layoff list for future openings in the classification (or class series) 
from which you are laid off. 

 
Telephone 
 
In accordance with WAC 251-10-080, you may appeal this action if you are a 
permanent employee and if you believe this action is not in accordance with 
the Higher Education Personnel Rule WAC 251-10-030. The appeal must be 
filed within 30 days of the above date. Address your appeal to Director, 
Higher Education Personnel Board, 1202 Black Lake Boulevard, Olympia, WA 
98504. 
 
   * Enclosure 2 
   * Employee Fact Sheet 
   * Employee Name 
   * Employee Social Security Number 
   * Employee Employment Date 
   * Salary at Time of Layoff 
   * Number of Employees in Layoff 
   * Unit in Same Classification 
   * Number of Employees in College in Same Classification 
   * Specific Layoff Unit 
   * Appointing Authority For Layoff Unit 
   * Veteran's Preference 
 
Leaves of Absence without Pay (days) 
 
Option Selection Deadline 5:00 p.m. 
 
Layoff Date: 
 
Seniority Date: 
 
Enclosure 3 
 
Layoff Option Sheet 
 
The following option has been made available to you by classification, not 
position. Your selection should be made with this in mind. 
 
   * 1. Option in lieu of layoff within your layoff unit. 
        o Vacant position in your current classification. 
 
          Position in your current classification occupied by the least 
          senior employee in rank and layoff seniority. 
 
          Vacant positions in lower classifications in the same class 
          series. 
 
          Positions in lower classifications in the same class series 
          occupied by the least senior employee in rank and layoff. 
 
          Vacant positions in a classification in which you have held 
          permanent status occupied by the least senior employee in rank 
          and layoff seniority. 
 
          Positions in a lower classification in the same class series in 
          which you have held permanent status that is occupied by the 
          least senior employee in rank and layoff seniority. 

 
     2. No permanent employee shall be separated through layoff without 
     being offered: 
 
     Classifications in which he/she meets minimum requirements and can 
     pass the examination for the position held by temporary, provisional 
     or probationary employees 
 
     Options Available: 
 
     3. As an alternative to either 1 or 2 above. or if neither 1 nor 2 is 
     applicable: 
 
     I wish to be placed on the layoff list for future vacancies in the 
     following classifications: 
 
        o I wish to resign from the College 
          (date) 
          Director of Personnel Date 
 
          Employee Date 
 
 
                                  [Image] 
 
    | Policy and Procedures | Faculty Handbook | Board Policies| Index | 
| External Policy | Planning Documents | Evergreen's Homepage | WAC and RCW 
                                     | 
 
                                  [Image] 
                         Last Modified: 10/29/1999 
                           Mail to:  Lee Hoemann 

