Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

21

Language English

Country United States

State MI

IDnum

Union

Local Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 141

Police and detectives 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Michigan State University
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 2000

EndYear 2003

Source

http://www.hr.msu.edu/Docweb/contracts/default.htm

Original_format PDF (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

ARTICLE PARAGRAPH PAGE 

 

 
Preface 1 1 
Agreement 3 1 
1 Recognition of the Lodge 4 1 
2 Management Rights 8 2 
3 Management Security 11 3 
4 Lodge Security and Checkoff 13 3 
5 Lodge Bargaining Committee 27 6 
6 Probationary Period 29 6 
7 Grievance Procedure 30 7 
8 Discharge and Discipline 45 10 
9 Special Meetings 55 12 
10 Seniority 58 13 
11 Layoff and Recall 61 14 
12 Loss of Seniority 72 15 
13 Scheduling 73 16 
14 Vacation Leave 80 18 
15 Personal Leave Time 90 19 
16 Overtime 97 20 
ARTICLE PARAGRAPH PAGE 
17 Holidays/Special Pass Days 113 23 
18 Longevity Pay 119 24 
19 Health-Dental Care Coverage 126 26 
20 Employee Paid Life Plan 128 26 
21 Sick Leave 130 27 
22 Medical Dispute 142 28 
23 Funeral Leave 143 29 
24 Leave for Lodge Conferences or Conventions 148 30 
25 Death Benefit Insurance 150 30 
26 Extended Disability Plan 153 31 
27 Long-Term Disability Plan 155 31 
28 Retirement Benefits 161 32 
29 Uniforms 167 33 
30 Automobiles and Equipment 170 33 
31 Liability Insurance 173 34 
32 Educational Assistance 175 34 
33 Wages 182 37 
34 Savings Clause 187 38 
35 Terms of this Agreement 188 38 
Memorandum of Understanding 40 
Index 43 
 

PREFACE 

-1 Michigan State University and Lodge 141 of the Fraternal Order of Police recognize 
their moral and legal responsibilities under federal, state, and local laws relating to fair 
employment and affirmative action practices. 
 
-2 The University and the Lodge recognize the moral principles involved in the area of 
civil rights and have reaffirmed in their Collective Bargaining Agreement their 
commitment not to discriminate because of race, religion, color, sex, age or national 
origin. Wherever personal pronouns are used in this Agreement, it shall be understood 
that the gender is neuter. 
 

AGREEMENT 

 
-3 This Agreement is entered into this First day of July, 2000, between the Michigan 
State University, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer" and Lodge No. 141, of the 
Fraternal Order of Police, Michigan State University Division, hereinafter referred to as 
the "Lodge." It is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to assure sound and mutually 
beneficial working and economic relationships between the parties hereto, to provide an 
orderly and peaceful means of resolving any misunderstandings or differences which may 
arise, and to set forth herein the basic agreement between the parties concerning rates of 
pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment. 
 

ARTICLE 1 

RECOGNITION OF THE LODGE 

 
A. Recognition 
 
-4 Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of Act No. 379 of the 
Public Acts of the State of Michigan of 1965 as amended, the Employer hereby grants 
sole and exclusive recognition to the Lodge for the purpose of collective bargaining for 
all employees covered by the bargaining unit. 
 
B. Definition of the Bargaining Unit 
 
-5 The Bargaining Unit consists of all regular, full-time sworn employees of the 
Department of Police and Public Safety (Protective Services) whose positions are 
classified as Police Officers V through I and Sergeants V through I. All other employees 
in this department are excluded from recognition in this bargaining unit such as 
employees in positions classified as Director, Assistant Chief, Deputy Chief, Captain, 
Lieutenant, Crossing Guard, Student, Clerical Personnel and full-time parking 
enforcement personnel. 
 
C. Notification 
 
-6 The Lodge will furnish to the Director of Employee Relations in writing within thirty 
(30) days of the signing of this Agreement, a list of officers of the Lodge and shall within 
thirty (30) days of any change in said list, advise the Director of Employee Relations in 

writing of such changes. 
 
-7 In the event of a change in the departmental rank structure, the change will not affect 
the membership of the bargaining unit. 
 

ARTICLE 2 

MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 

 
-8 The Lodge recognizes that the Employer reserves and retains, solely and exclusively, 
all rights to manage and direct its work force and to manage and operate the Employer's 
affairs. 
 
-9 All rights, functions, powers and authority which the Employer has not specifically 
abridged, delegated or modified by this Agreement are recognized by the Lodge as being 
retained by the Employer. 
 
-10 The Employer shall have the right to amend, supplement or add to its rules and 
regulations during the term of this Agreement, provided however, the Employer shall 
notify the Lodge whenever possible of any such amendments, supplements or additions at 
least fifteen (15) days in advance of their effective date. Such rules shall be reasonable 
and shall relate to the proper performance of employee's duties and shall not be applied in 
a discriminatory manner. Any rule or regulation may be discussed under the provisions of 
Article 9 of this Agreement. A rule may be subject to the grievance procedure (Article 7) 
only when it is applied to an employee of this bargaining unit in an unreasonable or 
discriminatory manner. 
 

ARTICLE 3 

MANAGEMENT SECURITY 

 
-11 The parties of this Agreement mutually recognize that the services performed by 
employees covered by this Agreement are services essential to the public health, safety 
and welfare. The Lodge, therefore, agrees that there shall be no interruption of these 
services, for any cause whatsoever, by the employees it represents, nor shall there by any 
concerted failure by them to report for duty, nor shall they absent themselves from their 
work, stop work, or abstain in whole or in part from the full, faithful and proper 
performance of the duties of their employment or picket the Employer's premises. The 
Lodge further agrees that there shall be no strikes, sit-downs, slowdowns, stay-ins, 
stoppages of work or any acts or other alterations of existing work performance patterns 
that interfere in any manner or to any degree with the services of the University. 
 
-12 Any violation of the foregoing shall be made the subject of disciplinary action or 
discharge from employment as to employees, and/or of exercise of any legal right or 
remedy as to the Lodge, and/or cancellation of the Agreement by the Employer, subject 
to the provision of Article 8 of this contract. 
 

ARTICLE 4 

LODGE SECURITY AND CHECKOFF 

 
-13 The Employer will not discriminate against any employee because of membership in 
the Lodge. 
 
A. Checkoff 
 
-14 The Employer agrees to deduct from the regular monthly pay of each Lodge member 
who has an executed Check-off Authorization Form on file, the Lodge's dues or service 
charge for the following month subject to all of the following subsections. The Employer 
shall have no responsibility for the collection of initiation fees and membership dues, or 
service charges or any other assessments that are not in accordance with this Article. 
 
-15 The Lodge's Check-off Authorization Form shall conform to the respective State and 
Federal law(s) concerning that subject, or any interpretation(s) made thereof. 
 
-16 The Lodge shall exclusively use and provide the Employer with Check-off 
Authorization Forms as herein provided for: 
VOLUNTARY CHECK-OFF AUTHORIZATION CAPITOL CITY LODGE 141 
Print________________________________________________________________ 
Last Name First Name Middle Initial 
I certify that Capitol City Lodge 141, Fraternal Order of Police is my designated 
collective bargaining representative and I hereby authorize and direct to my Employer 
_____________________to deduct from my earnings during this month and each 
successor month an amount determined by Capitol City Lodge 141 and request that this 
amount be forwarded to the Treasurer of Capitol City Lodge 141. This authorization and 
direction shall be irrevocable for the period of the joint bargaining agreement between 
Lodge 141 and my Employer, and I agree and direct that this authorization and direction 
shall be automatically renewed with each succeeding applicable joint bargaining 
agreement between the Lodge and my Employer, unless written notice is given to the 
Lodge and my Employer by me. 
Date: ________________________ Signature _______________________ 
 
-17 The Employer will present employees with check-off authorization cards at the time 
of initial employment. If the employee chooses not to authorize payroll deduction at the 
time the card is presented, the Employer will notify the Lodge. 
 
-18 All Check-Off Authorization Forms shall be filed with the Employer's Payroll Office 
who may return any incomplete, or incorrectly completed form to the Lodge's Treasurer, 
and no checkoff shall be made until such deficiency is corrected. 
 
-19 The Employer shall check off only obligations which come due at the time of 
checkoff, and will make check-off deduction only if the employee has enough pay due to 
cover such obligation, and will not be responsible for refund to the employee if he/she 
has duplicated a check-off deduction by direct payment to the Lodge. 
 

-20 The Employer's remittance will be deemed correct if the Lodge does not give written 
notice to the Employer's Controller, within two (2) calendar weeks after a remittance is 
sent, of its belief, with reason(s) stated therefore that the remittance is incorrect. 
 
-21 The Lodge agrees to indemnify and save the Employer harmless against any and all 
claims, suits or other forms of liability arising out of its deduction from employee's pay 
of Lodge dues or service charge or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or 
authorization furnished under this Article. The Lodge assumes full responsibility for the 
disposition of the deductions so made, once they have been sent to the Lodge. The 
Employer shall not be liable to the Lodge by reasons of the requirements of this 
Agreement for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual 
deductions made from wages earned by employees. 
 
B. Agency Shop Provision 
 
-22 Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it becomes effective and who are 
members of the Lodge at that time shall be required as a condition of continued 
employment to continue membership in the Lodge for the duration of this Agreement. 
 
-23 Employees hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred into the bargaining unit after the 
effective date of this Agreement and covered by this Agreement shall be required as a 
condition of continued employment to become members of the Lodge for the duration of 
this Agreement on or before the 10th day after the 30th day following the beginning of 
their employment in the unit or pay to the Lodge a sum equivalent to the initial fee and 
membership dues as a charge for representation services. 
 
-24 An employee who shall tender an initial fee (if not already a member) and the 
periodical dues or a sum equivalent to the initial fee and periodical dues uniformly 
required of all employees in the bargaining units that are represented by the Lodge shall 
be determined to meet the conditions of this Section. 
 
-25 Employees of the bargaining units that are represented by the Lodge shall be 
determined to be in compliance with this Lodge security clause if they are not more than 
60 days in arrears in payment of membership dues or the sum equivalent to membership 
dues as a charge for representation services. The Employer shall be notified in writing by 
the Lodge of any employees in the bargaining unit that are represented by the Lodge who 
are 60 days in arrears in payment of the membership dues or the sum equivalent. 
 
-26 The Lodge shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any and all claims, 
demands, suits or any other action arising from this Article or from complying with any 
request for termination under this Article. 
 

 
-27 The bargaining committee of the Lodge will include not more than six (6) 

ARTICLE 5 

LODGE BARGAINING COMMITTEE 

representatives. These representatives shall be composed of four (4) Lodge members of 
the Michigan State University bargaining unit, and two (2) non-Michigan State 
University employee representatives. No more than three (3) representatives will be on 
duty during the day bargaining takes place. The Lodge will furnish the Office of 
Employee Relations with a written list of the Lodge's bargaining committee, and any 
alternates, prior to the first bargaining meeting, and substitution changes thereto, if 
necessary. 
 
-28 Employee members of the Lodge bargaining unit will be paid for the time spent in 
negotiations with the Employer, including one-half (1/2) hour prior to and one-half (1/2) 
hour after the bargaining meeting is over, but only for straight time hours they would 
otherwise have worked, had they worked their regularly scheduled shift. If the employee 
is scheduled to work on the day of a regularly scheduled bargaining session, the 
employee will be credited with the number of hours spent in bargaining as time worked 
during this tour of duty of that day. The time of the hours to be worked to complete 
his/her normal tour of duty for that day will be determined by the employee's shift 
supervisor. 
 

ARTICLE 6 

PROBATIONARY PERIOD 

 
-29 When a new employee is hired in the unit, he/she shall be considered as a 
probationary employee for the first twelve (12) months of his/her continuous, regular, 
full-time employment. The probationary period may be extended by written notice to the 
employee in cases where the regular probationary period was interrupted by medical 
leave or any injury restricting regular duty of the employee. The period of extension shall 
equal the period of the intervening impairment. In no event shall the extension exceed a 
period of six (6) months. If any extension of probation occurs under this section, it should 
not result in the delay of wage increments or other contract benefits. The Lodge shall 
represent probationary employees for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to 
rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment, except 
no matter concerning the discipline, layoff, or termination of a probationary employee 
shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures. For the first six (6) months of 
the probationary period, assignment to overtime events for eligible employees shall be 
with the sole discretion of the Assistant Chief or his/her designee. 
 

ARTICLE 7 

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 

 
-30 Any employee having a dispute over the interpretation or application of the terms of 
this agreement, shall present it to the Employer as follows: 
A. Step I 
 
-31 If any employee believes he/she has a problem in connection with his/her 
employment, he/she shall discuss it with his/her immediate supervisor and/or other 
appropriate superior within five (5) working days after the date the facts have occurred or 

should have reasonably been known to occur. 
 
B. Step II 
 
-32 If the problem is not resolved by the immediate supervisor, the shift coordinator or an 
officer of the Lodge must reduce the grievance to writing on the official grievance form 
used by the Lodge and present it to the Director of Police and Public Safety or his/her 
designee within five (5) working days after its alleged occurrence or oral discussion in 
order to be a proper matter for the grievance procedure. A grievance shall be defined as a 
written dispute concerning the interpretation, application, and alleged violation of any of 
the terms of this agreement. The grievance shall be dated and signed by the aggrieved 
employee and his/her shift coordinator or an officer of the Lodge and shall set forth the 
facts including dates and provisions of the agreement that are alleged to have been 
violated and the remedy desired. The grievance shall not be considered submitted until 
the Director of Police and Public Safety or his/her designee receives the written 
grievance. At the time it is received, it shall be dated and a copy returned to the aggrieved 
employee. A meeting will be scheduled between the Director of Police and Public Safety 
or his/her designee to discuss the grievance within five (5) working days from the day the 
written grievance was received. 
 
-33 A grievance may be withdrawn without prejudice, and, if so withdrawn, all financial 
liabilities shall be canceled. If the grievance is reinstated, the financial liability shall date 
only from the date of reinstatement. If the grievance is not reinstated within three (3) 
months from the date of withdrawal, the grievance shall not be reinstated. Where one or 
more grievances involve a similar issue, those grievances may be withdrawn without 
prejudice pending the disposition of the appeal of a representative case. In such event the 
withdrawal without prejudice will not affect financial liability. 
 
-34 Unless the grievance is withdrawn as provided above, the Director of Police and 
Public Safety or his/her designee will then answer the grievance in writing within five (5) 
working days from the meeting at which the grievance was discussed. 
 
-35 If the Employer requests that the aggrieved employee be present in any step or step of 
the grievance procedure, he/she will be required to do so. 
 
C. Step III 
 
-36 If the answer from the Director of Police and Public Safety or his/her designee is not 
satisfactory, the local division president or his/her designee shall submit his/her appeal 
within five (5) working days of the receipt of the Step II answer to the Director of 
Employee Relations or his/her representative indicating the reasons why the written 
answer of the Director of Police and Public Safety or his/her designee was unsatisfactory. 
A meeting between no more than three (3) representatives of the Lodge and three (3) 
representatives of the Employer will be scheduled within five (5) working days from the 
date the appeal is received by the Office of Employee Relations to discuss the grievance. 
The Director of Employee Relations or his/her representative will then answer the 

grievance in writing within ten (10) working days from the date of the meeting at which 
the grievance was discussed. 
 
-37 The Lodge representatives may meet, if on the Employer's property at a place 
designated by the Employer, for at least one-half (1/2) hour preceding the meeting with 
the representatives of the Employer for which a written request had been made. 
 
-38 The local division President or his/her representative shall be allowed time off his/her 
job without loss of pay to investigate a grievance he/she is to discuss or has discussed 
with the Employer, upon having received permission from his/her supervisor to do so. 
The supervisor will normally grant permission and provide sufficient time to the local 
division President or his/her representative to leave his/her work for these purposes 
subject to necessary emergency exceptions. The privilege of the local division President 
leaving his/her work during working hours without loss of time or pay is subject to the 
understanding that the time will be devoted to the proper handling of the grievances and 
will not be abused; and the local division President or his/her representative will perform 
his/her regularly assigned work at all times except when necessary to leave his/her work 
to handle grievances as provided herein. Any alleged abuse by either party will be a 
proper subject for a Special Meeting. 
 
D. Step IV 
 
-39 If the Office of Employee Relations' answer was unacceptable, settlement may be 
determined by decision of an arbitrator selected by the parties. The Lodge President will 
notify the Office of Employee Relations indicating why the Office of Employee 
Relations' answer was not satisfactory. In the event the Lodge and the Office of 
Employee Relations do not agree on an arbitrator within seven (7) working days, the 
Lodge shall file a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association 
within five (5) working days of failing to mutually agree on an arbitrator who shall select 
an arbitrator and the arbitrator shall establish a mutually acceptable hearing date. The fees 
and approved expenses of an arbitrator will be paid by the parties equally. The rules of 
AAA apply to all arbitration hearings. 
 
-40 The arbitrator shall have no power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the 
terms of this agreement nor shall he/she substitute his/her discretion for that of the 
Employer or the Lodge where such discretion has been retained by the Employer or the 
Lodge nor shall he/she exercise any responsibility or function of the Employer or the 
Lodge. 
 
-41 Finality of Decisions - There shall be no appeal from the arbitrator's decision. Such 
decision shall be final and binding upon the Lodge and its members, the employee or the 
employees involved and the Employer. 
 
E. Time Limits 
 
-42 When reference to working days is made, only weekdays, Monday through Friday 

will be considered. Saturday, Sunday and holidays shall not be considered in these time 
periods. Time limits set forth in this grievance procedure shall be strictly adhered to 
unless time shall be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties. If the Lodge 
requests an extension of the time limits in writing, the Employer will not unreasonably 
deny such a request. 
 
-43 If the Employer fails to schedule a meeting or answer the grievance within the 
designated time limits, the grievance may be appealed to the next step of this grievance 
procedure within five (5) working days of the date of the expiration of the applicable time 
limit. 
 
-44 If a grievance is not appealed within the applicable time limits after 

a) receipt of the previous step answer, 
b) failure to schedule a meeting, or 
c) failure to answer the grievance, 

the grievance shall be considered settled on the basis of the Employer's last answer and 
not be subject to further review. 
 

ARTICLE 8 

DISCHARGE & DISCIPLINE 

 
-45 Discipline is primarily the responsibility of the first line supervisor and is intended to 
be a positive or developmental rather than a negative or punishing procedure. 
 
-46 When positive measures fail and the Employer determines that punishment or 
discharge is necessary, such punishment or discharge shall be imposed by the Director of 
Police and Public Safety or his/her representative. 
 
-47 The levels of punishment that the Employer may utilize include: oral reprimand, 
written reprimand, suspension without pay for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days or 
dismissal. 
 
-48 In the event of disciplinary action other than oral reprimand, the employee involved 
shall be provided, by the Employer at the time of the discipline, a complete written 
statement of the charges against him/her, with a brief and concise statement of why this 
action is being taken. The Lodge shall be provided with a copy of the discipline in a 
timely fashion. 
 
-49 The employee shall have the opportunity to meet with the Lodge representative 
and/or Lodge Attorney at the time he/she receives notice of disciplinary action and the 
Lodge representative and/or Lodge Attorney shall be present if so requested by the 
employee at the time of the disciplinary action. Only one representative shall serve as a 
spokesperson during the proceedings. 
 
-50 Should the employee feel that such punishment or discharge is unjust, he/she may 
have the option of pursuing the challenge to the discipline through the utilization of an 

Appeal Board or the Grievance Procedure in accordance with Step III and IV set forth in 
Article 7. This election must be made in writing by the employee to the Director of Police 
and Public Safety within three (3) working days after being advised on the punishment 
imposed and must include a statement as to whether the Grievance Procedure or the 
Appeal Board process has been selected. If the employee elects the Appeal Board 
process, the Director of Police and Public Safety shall refer the matter to the Appeal 
Board, and the employee, by making the election for an Appeal Board, permanently 
waives the right to pursue the matter through the Grievance Procedure and agrees to be 
bound by the Appeal Board's decision. 

 
a) The Appeal Board shall consist of three (3) members. One member shall be a 
representative of the Employer and one member shall be a representative of the Lodge. 
The third member shall be an independent third person not affiliated with the Department 
or the Lodge. The members of the Appeal Board herein described shall be selected in the 
following manner: 

 

b) The Appeal Board shall be scheduled within three (3) days, for the purpose of 
reviewing the disciplinary action, and shall render its disposition on the matter in writing 
within three (3) days, following the Appeal Board meeting. 
 

c) After a disciplinary matter has been referred to the Appeal Board, it may not be 

1) Employer Representative: The names of all Employer Representatives 
shall be placed in a box and the Employer shall draw therefrom five (5) names. 
Once the names of the Employer Representatives have been drawn, the 
disciplined employee, or his/her designated representative, shall strike four (4) of 
the five names from the list. The remaining named representative shall be the 
Employer's Representative on the Appeal Board. 

2) Employee Representative: The names of all Employee Representatives 

shall be placed in a box and the disciplined employee, or his/her designated 
representative, shall draw therefrom five (5) names. Once the names of the 
Employee Representatives have been drawn, the Employer shall strike four (4) 
names from the list. The remaining named representative shall be the Employee's 
Representative on the Appeal Board. 

3) Independent Representative: The names of Independent 

Representatives, taken from a list of previously agreed upon members established 
by mutual agreement of the University and the Lodge, shall then be placed in a 
box and a name is to be drawn therefrom by either an Employer Representative or 
a Lodge Representative. The named person drawn will serve as the third member 
of the Appeal Board. Determination as to whether the Employer or the employee 
will draw the name of the Independent Representative for the first Appeal Board 
Proceeding under this system will be determined by a flip of a coin. Thereafter, 
the parties will alternate the right to draw a name for each Appeal Board. In the 
event the list of Independent Representatives has not been finalized by the time 
the first Appeal Board is to commence, a special meeting shall be called under the 
Special Meetings section of this Agreement, to finalize the list. The list shall have 
at least seven (7) names. 

withdrawn by either party except by mutual consent. 
 

d) When the membership of the Appeal Board is established, each member and 

the Appellant will be provided with copies of the following, three (3) days prior to the 
scheduled hearings: 

1) statement of charges; 
2) investigative reports; 
3) any existing report of the matter prepared by the Appellant. 

 

e) The Appellant shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney of his/her 

choice at the Appeal Board and shall be given an opportunity to cross-examine witnesses 
of the Employer and call witnesses of his/her own. The Appeal Board shall be closed to 
the general public. 
 
-51 Whenever a criminal charge or charges are preferred by a warrant against an 
employee, it shall be the prerogative of the Employer to suspend the employee without 
prejudice and without pay until the charges, if any, within the criminal justice system are 
concluded. 
 
-52 While it is considered that an employee who is charged in the criminal justice system 
with violation of a criminal act should be suspended without pay until final determination 
of the case, an exception may be made if the Director or his/her designee shall conclude 
that the charge appears flimsy and fanciful with strong probability of innocence, in which 
event he/she will authorize alteration in suspension to one with pay. 
 
-53 Acquittal of disciplinary charges entitles the employee to back pay at regular rate for 
the time of his/her suspension without pay minus any compensation derived from the 
Employer (for example, but not limited to unemployment insurance payments) and any 
compensation derived from other sources during time periods which would have been 
occupied by scheduled employment with the Employer had the employee not been 
suspended or dismissed. 
 
-54 A record of oral reprimand shall remain in the employee's Official Personnel 
Folder(s) for a period of up to six (6) months. Other disciplinary actions shall remain in 
the employee's Official Personnel Folder(s) for a period of up to twenty-four (24) 
months. 
 

ARTICLE 9 

SPECIAL MEETINGS 

 
-55 The Employer and the Lodge agree to meet and confer on matters of clarification of 
the terms of this Agreement upon the written request of either party. The written request 
shall be made in advance and shall include an agenda stating the nature of the matters to 
be discussed and the reason(s) for requesting the meeting. Discussion shall be limited to 
matters set forth in the agenda, but it is understood that these special meetings shall not 
be for the purpose of conducting continuing collective bargaining negotiations, nor to in 

any way modify, add to, or detract from the provisions of this Agreement. Special 
meetings shall be held within ten (10) calendar days of the receipt of the written request 
and shall be held between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. at a time and place which is mutually 
agreeable to the parties. Each party shall be represented by not more than four (4) persons 
at special meetings. 
 
-56 The Lodge representatives may meet, if on the Employer's property at a place 
designated by the Employer, for a period not to exceed one-half (1/2) hour immediately 
preceding a meeting for which a written request has been made. 
 
-57 Employee representatives of the Lodge at special meetings will be paid by the 
Employer for time spent in special meetings, but only for the straight time hours they 
would otherwise have worked on their regular work schedule. 
 

ARTICLE 10 
SENIORITY 

 
A. Definitions 
 
-58 University Seniority - Length of continuous employment starting with original date of 
hire with the Employer, including periods of authorized leaves of absence and layoffs 
consistent with other articles of this Agreement. This date shall be used for benefit 
purposes. 
 
-59 Unit Seniority 
 

a) Police Officer: Total length of employment from date sworn as a Police 

Officer. 
 
B. Seniority Lists 
 
-60 Management shall maintain a roster of employees, arranged according to unit 
seniority, showing name, position, class, and seniority date, and shall furnish a copy to 
the Lodge in March of each year. 
 

ARTICLE 11 

LAYOFF AND RECALL 

 
A. Definition 
 
-61 Layoff shall mean the separation of employees from the active work force due to lack 
of work or funds or to abolition of positions because of changes in organization. 
 
B. Order of Layoff 
 
-62 No permanent or probationary employee shall be laid off from his/her position in the 

Department of Police and Public Safety while any seasonal, temporary or provisional 
employees are serving in the same position class in that Department. 
 
-63 Except as provided below, the layoff of probationary or permanent employees in the 
Department of Police and Public Safety shall be in inverse order of seniority. 
 
C. Demotion in Lieu of Layoff 
 
-64 Except as provided below, an employee subject to layoff who so requests, shall in 
lieu of layoff, be demoted by seniority to a lower position in the Department of Police 
and Public Safety. Demotion shall be through those classes in which the employee 
previously held permanent status, provided that an employee serving a probationary 
period shall not displace a permanent employee in a class in which he/she has not 
previously held permanent status. 
 
D. Notice of Layoff 
 
-65 Employees to be laid off shall be given at least twenty-one calendar days prior notice. 
 
E. Preferred Eligibility Lists 
 
-66 Employees demoted in lieu of layoff shall have their names placed on preferred 
eligible lists in order of seniority for each class from which displaced within the 
Department of Police and Public Safety. Employees laid off shall have their names placed 
on preferred eligible lists in order of seniority for each class from which displaced. 
 
-67 Names shall remain on the lists for six (6) months or the length of their seniority 
whichever is greater for those employees demoted, unless removed as provided below. 
An employee who is laid off will have his/her name remain on the list for a period of time 
equal to his/her seniority at the time of his/her layoff or two (2) years whichever is lesser. 
Employees shall be recalled from layoff or shall be restored to positions from which 
demoted in the Department of Police and Public Safety before any other persons are 
selected for employment or promotion in those classes. 
 
-68 Employees to be recalled from layoff shall be given a minimum of ten (10) calendar 
days to respond after notice has been sent by certified mail to their last known address. 
 
-69 Employees who decline recall or who in absence of extenuating circumstances, fail to 
respond as directed within the times allowed, shall be presumed to have resigned and 
their names shall be removed from seniority and preferred eligibility lists. 
 
G. Restoration to Positions from which Demoted 
 
-70 Employees to be restored to positions from which they had been demoted in lieu of 
layoff shall be given three (3) calendar days in which to accept. Names of those who 
decline shall be removed from the pertinent preferred eligibility lists. 

 
H. Other Provisions 
 
-71 Employment by the Department of Police and Public Safety of temporary, auxiliary, 
or reserve personnel shall be limited to duties normally performed by students, and may 
only be supplemental to, and shall not replace members of the bargaining unit. 
 

ARTICLE 12 

LOSS OF SENIORITY 

 
-72 An employee shall lose his/her status as an employee and his/her University and unit 
seniority if: 

a) He/She resigns or quits. 
b) He/She is discharged or terminated and not reinstated. 
c) He/She retires. 
d) He/She does not return to work from layoff within ten (10) calendar days after 

being notified to return by certified or registered mail or by telegram addressed to the 
employee at his/her last address filed with the Office of Human Resource Services. An 
employee who changes addresses must notify the Employer of the change. 

e) He/She has been on layoff for a period of time equal to his/her unit seniority at 

the time of his layoff or two (2) years, whichever is lesser. 

f) He/She is absent from work, including the failure to return to work at the 

expiration of a leave of absence, vacation, or disciplinary layoff, for three (3) consecutive 
working days without notifying the Employer, except when the failure to notify and work 
is due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee. 
 

ARTICLE 13 
SCHEDULING 

 
A. Definition 
 
-73 Because Police Officers and Sergeants are required to work regardless of calendar 
weekends, i.e., Saturdays and Sundays, the Employer schedules days off in lieu thereof 
and refers to those days as "Pass Days." 
 
B. Scheduling 
 
-74 The use of Pass Days, pursuant to Article 16, Section A, Paragraph 97, a & b, may be 
requested and may be taken subject to management direction or approval. 
 
-75 Overtime and call-back time shall be authorized by management. A regular scheduled 
shift shall be posted once each month to determine the normal workday for every member 
of the bargaining unit. 
 
C. Schedule Deviation 
 

-76 For patrol personnel excepting investigative and task force personnel, if there is a 
deviation from the normal work scheduled, a five (5) days notice shall be given. If a five 
(5) days notice is not given, those hours worked outside of the posted schedule shall be 
paid at the rate of time and one-half. 
 
D. Changing 
 
-77 Employees covered hereby, may change a pass day after the schedule has been 
posted, if they receive permission from the Platoon Supervisor(s) of the shift(s) involved. 
 
E. Trading Shifts 
 
-78 Employees of the bargaining unit may trade shifts with another employee of equal 
rank, subject to the approval of management, providing the change does not cause the 
payment of overtime. Management approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Notice 
of the requested trade must be submitted by the affected employees at least 28 days in 
advance of the effective date of the shift period affected by the trade. The duration of the 
trade will be for the entire shift period. Disputes arising under this provision shall be 
reduced to a grievance beginning at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. If a Step 3 
meeting is thereafter required, the Office of Employee Relations will respond to the 
grievance at this meeting. The Lodge will decide whether to arbitrate the dispute and the 
parties will select the arbitrator the same day. The dispute shall be submitted to 
immediate expedited binding arbitration with a bench decision being rendered by the 
arbitrator the same day of the arbitration hearing.  
 
F. Officer in Charge 
 
-79 An Officer designated as the “Officer in Charge” will be compensated for the time 
spent in this capacity at his/her regular rate of pay as well as an additional rate as outlined 
in the following chart: 
Time spent as “Officer in Charge” Additional Rate 
Less than two hours None. 
2-4 hours One-half (1/2) hour at the rate of time and one-half (1 ½) the officer’s regular 
rate of pay. 
More than 4 hours One (1) hour at the rate of time and onehalf (1 ½) the officer’s regular 
rate of pay. 
 

 
-80 Effective July 1 of each year employees will accumulate vacation in a lump sum 
according to the following schedule based upon total service months. 
Date of Hire through 60 months - 12 days (96 hours) 
61st month through 120 months - 18 days (144 hours) 
121st month and beyond - 24 days (192 hours) 
New employees must complete 6 months of service prior to utilization of leave accrual. 

ARTICLE 14 

VACATION LEAVE 

 
-81 New employees whose service dates do not correspond to July 1 and who will 
progress from one level to the next for accrual purposes during the fiscal year shall 
receive their annual accrual adjusted accordingly. 
 
-82 If an employee terminates or is placed on an unpaid leave of absence, the vacation 
accrual will be adjusted accordingly and will be reflected in the last paycheck, if 
necessary. 
 
-83 Vacation accrual is not cumulative and must be taken by June 30th of each year, 
except that employees will be allowed to carry over to the next year amounts to the 
maximum shown below: 
12th month through 60th month 24 hours carry-over 
61st month through 120th month 36 hours carry-over 
121st month and beyond 45 hours carry-over 
In no event will an employee be allowed to carry over amounts in excess of the above 
credits. 
 
-84 Vacation will not accrue during an approved leave of absence without pay, while on 
regular Workers’ Compensation, during an extended military leave of absence, during a 
terminal vacation period, in excess of Special Maximum Accrual, nor while on layoff. 
 
-85 An employee's vacation pay will be based on his/her base rate of pay. 
 
-86 If a University designated holiday falls within an employee's vacation, the employee 
will be paid for the holiday and will not be charged for vacation that day. When an 
employee terminates, he/she shall be paid for any unused vacation, but shall not be paid 
for a University designated holiday which may fall within the terminal vacation period 
except in the case of transition into University Retirement. 
 
-87 An approved leave of absence for military service will not be counted as a break in 
the employee's service record when determining his/her vacation allowance under the 
progressive vacation plan. All other leaves of absence will be considered a break in an 
employee's service record in determining vacation allowances. 
 
-88 Vacation leaves shall be granted to employees covered hereby, by management of the 
Department and such vacations will be granted at such times as they least interfere with 
the efficient operation of the department. Vacation requests must be made by February 28 
preceding the period required. Officers are granted vacation in accordance with a first 
come, first serve basis. 
 
-89 If any employee experiences illness or accident during his/her vacation and is 
hospitalized or presents a physician’s statement satisfactory to the Employer that he/she 
was under the care of a physician, he/she may submit an amended Report of Absence 
charging the vacation credits to his/her sick leave account. 
 

 
-90 Personal leave time, with pay, shall be granted annually to each full-time, regular 
employee on the payroll as of July 1, for the purpose of attending to, of caring for, 
personal matters during the course of the fiscal year commencing on such date. Effective 
July 1 of each year employees will accumulate personal leave time in a lump sum 
according to the following schedule: 
Employment date prior to 7/1/84 Employment date after 7/1/84 
64 hours 24 hours 
 
-91 The forty (40) hour Personal Leave time adjustment is the former compensatory week 
as identified and transferred from the Memorandum of Understanding. 
 
-92 It is expressly understood that officers employed after 7/1/84 shall be eligible only for 
24 hours of Personal Leave time. 
 
-93 Personal leave time credited to each full-time, continuous employee shall be utilized 
and charged to that employee in increments of not less than one (1) full hour. The 
employee shall obtain the approval of his/her Supervisor prior to utilizing any portion of 
accrued personal leave time. 
 
-94 No carry-over of unused personal leave time from one fiscal year to another shall be 
allowed. Employees may, however, be compensated, upon request, prior to July 31st of 
each year for not more than forty (40) hours of personal leave time not used during the 
previous fiscal year. Such compensation must be requested by March 31 each year and 
will be at an employee's straight hourly rate as calculated at the close of the fiscal year. 
An employee terminating prior to January 1, shall only be eligible for one-half (1/2) of 
the annual personal leave accrual, to be adjusted on the employee's final payroll check. 
No portion of the regular 24 hours granted to all employees shall be reimbursable. 
 
-95 An employee may opt to have forty (40) hours of personal leave time (formerly 
compensatory time) added to their base salary on a one-time basis. The compensation 
shall be on the basis of a straight-time, hourly rate x forty (40) hours added to the base 
rate. Any option exercised under this paragraph is an irrevocable decision and constitutes 
a buy-out for the employee. 
 
-96 The forty (40) hours of personal leave (formerly compensatory time) granted to 
employees who were employed prior to July 1, 1984, shall not be subject to negotiations 
without the approval of a majority of those employees receiving the benefit. 
 

ARTICLE 16 
OVERTIME 

ARTICLE 15 

PERSONAL LEAVE TIME 

 
A. Definitions 
 

-97 a) Normal Work Cycle - A normal work cycle for regular full-time Police Officers 
and Sergeants shall consist of a twenty-eight (28) day cycle of one hundred sixty (160) 
hours with no more than eight (8) hours per day, not including meals. Eight (8) pass days 
are granted within every twenty-eight (28) day work cycle for a total of one hundred four 
(104) pass days each year. There will be no less than two pass days granted consecutively 
unless requested by the employee and approved by the Employer. 
 

b) Normal Work Week - A normal work week for regular full-time Service 

Officers shall consist of a seven (7) day cycle of forty (40) hours with no more than eight 
hours per day, not including meals. Two (2) pass days are granted within each seven (7) 
day cycle for a total of one hundred four (104) pass days each year. There will be no less 
than two (2) pass days granted consecutively unless requested by the employee and 
approved by the Employer. 
 

c) Normal Work Day - A normal work day for regular full-time employees shall 

be eight (8) hours, unless regularly scheduled otherwise, not including meal periods. 
-98 On-Call - The term "on-call" means that situation where an off-duty employee is 
officially advised by a designated representative that he/she should be prepared to return 
to duty. The employee being so informed shall then remain at home, or at a location no 
further from his/her home to the station and which is made known to the department, and 
be in full control of his/her faculties if ordered to return to duty. The on-call status will be 
terminated by a return telephone call to the individuals placed on call. Employees who 
are placed on an on-call status shall be credited at the rate of one-half (1/2) hour 
compensatory time for each hour or portion of an hour they remain on the on-call status. 
On-call compensations shall not apply to those employees assigned to task forces and/or 
investigations. 
 
B. Overtime 
 
-99 Hours worked by employees covered hereby for purposes as determined by 
management in excess of the normal tour of duty shall be compensated as described in 
Sections C, D, and E below. 
 
C. Time and One-Half the Straight Hourly Rate 
 
-100 Any routine of two (2) hours or less that is an extension of the employee's normal 
work day shall be compensated at the one-and-one-half rate. Examples of such work 
include, but are not limited to, complaint investigations, follow-up investigations, etc. 
 
-101 All hours worked during an emergency situation as declared by the Director or 
his/her designee. (Example: Riots, demonstrations, on and off Campus; tornados and 
tornado warnings; power failures; snowstorms; floods, or any other declared emergency.) 
 

a) In those situations where an employee is called back and where he/she has not 

been notified in advance and the call-back is not continuous with his/her regular work 
period, the employee shall receive not less than three (3) hours pay at the time and one-

half rate. 
 

b) In those situations where an employee is required by the Employer to remain at 

the University because of an emergency situation, the employee shall receive time and 
one-half compensation for the time he/she is required to remain at the University. 
 
-102 Routinely scheduled events such as Officers' and Supervisory meetings, 
qualification shoots, training sessions and other Special Events such as football, 
basketball, registrations, etc., shall be compensated for at the rate of time and one-half for 
only the actual time the officer is required to be in attendance or work. 
 
-103 Those individuals designated by the department to instruct in recruit schools or 
other duly authorized training sessions, while off duty, shall be compensated at the rate of 
time and one-half for only the actual time they are scheduled to instruct, unless 
reimbursement is provided to the individual by the training agency. 
 
-104 Officers subpoenaed or directed into court including Probate Court and official 
hearings, during offduty hours shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half their 
regular hourly rate for the time they actually spend in court. Officers regularly scheduled 
for first platoon or night jump shift slated to appear within twelve (12) hours after their 
shift is due to terminate, shall receive a three (3) hour minimum overtime guarantee; all 
other officers shall receive a two (2) hour minimum overtime guarantee. Where witness 
fees are provided, such fees shall be submitted to the Employer. 
 
-105 Officers scheduled to work overtime shall be given a minimum four (4) hours 
notification if the overtime event is to be canceled. If less than four (4) hours notice is 
given, the Officer shall be paid one (1) hour at the rate of time and one-half. Notice will 
be considered given with verification that the department attempted to call to give the 
four (4) hours notice. 
 
D. Time and One-Half Compensatory Time Rate or Time and One-Half Straight Hourly 
Rate 
 
-106 All hours worked due to call-back immediately preceding the employee's normal 
work day for only such time actually worked. 
 
-107 Employees who are required to obtain complaints and warrants and validate 
complaints while off duty shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half for a 
minimum of two (2) hours. Note Paragraph -101. However in those instances where an 
officer is required to obtain complaints and warrants and validate complaints immediately 
preceding or following his/her tour of duty, he/she shall be compensated at the rate of 
time and one-half for only the actual time worked.  
 
-108 Officers may request time and one-half compensatory time in lieu of time and one-
half pay for overtime hours worked as listed under Section C. These requests must be 
made through the Deputy Chief or his/her designee and are subject to his or her 

designee's approval. 
 
E. Other Provisions 
 
-109 No compensation shall be provided for time necessitated by the employee's 
negligence. 
 
F. Approval of Overtime 
 
-110 All overtime shall be authorized by that shift supervisor who is in charge of the 
department during the period of time when the overtime is actually worked or the 
individual officer's immediate supervisor, except under those conditions as described in 
this Article, Paragraph -100. 
 
-111 The individual officer's immediate supervisor shall have the responsibility of 
communicating the overtime authorized to the shift supervisor who is in charge of the 
department during the period when the overtime is actually worked. 
 
G. Pyramiding 
 
-112 Payment for overtime, call-back time, and court appearances (paragraph 104) shall 
not be duplicated for the same hours worked as heretofore provided. 
ARTICLE 17 
HOLIDAYS/SPECIAL PASS DAYS 
 
-113 The following holidays (special pass days) are designated by the Employer as: New 
Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day 
following Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, the day before or after Christmas Day, and 
the day before or after New Year's Day which are considered separately each year. 
 
-114 Whenever one of these holidays falls on a Saturday and the employee does not work 
on this day or on a scheduled day off in the employee's work week and no other day is 
observed as a holiday by the Employer, the employee will receive an additional day off 
with pay, the time to be arranged with management. Whenever one of the above holidays 
falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the designated holiday, 
except for the day before or after Christmas Day and the day before or after New Year's 
which shall be considered separately each year. 
 
-115 There will be no holiday pay when: 

a) An employee is absent on the working day immediately preceding or 

immediately following the holiday, unless his/her absence is excused. 

b) The employee is on leave of absence without pay, on layoff, or Regular 

c) A holiday falls during a vacation period preceding termination (except when an 

Workers’Compensation. 

employee is retiring). 
 

ARTICLE 18 

LONGEVITY PAY 

-116 If the employee works on a University designated holiday as set forth in paragraph 
113, he/she shall be paid double time for all hours worked and in addition thereto, be 
granted a "special pass day" to be scheduled at another time. 
 
-117 When a University designated holiday falls on a Monday or Friday, employees not 
scheduled to work that holiday shall also be scheduled off for the weekend which 
immediately precedes or follows the holiday itself to the extent practicable as determined 
by the Shift Commander. 
 
-118 An employee who is on vacation or sickness and disability leave with pay when a 
holiday occurs will be paid for the holiday and no charge will be made against accrued 
vacation or sick leave credits. 
 

 
-119 All regular full-time employees of the Employer shall be entitled to receive 
longevity pay for length of continuous service with the Employer according to the 
following rules and schedule of payment. 
 
-120 Longevity Year - The longevity year is defined as the twelve month period 
beginning October 1 of each year and ending September 30. For longevity payment 
purposes only, a year of continuous full-time service is defined as any longevity year in 
which the employee is actively employed for at least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar 
days). 
 
-121 Longevity pay shall be computed as a percentage of the employee's annual base rate 
of pay, but not to exceed the schedule. Base rate of pay shall be that rate which an 
employee is being paid on September 1 prior to payment. If an employee is not on the 
payroll as of September 1, the rate to be used will be the rate upon his/her return. Base 
rate of pay shall not include overtime or premium pay. 
 
-122 Initial Eligibility - The last date of hire as a full-time employee will be used as the 
normal longevity date. To qualify for the first longevity payment, an employee must have 
completed six years of full-time continuous service as of October 1 of any year. To 
qualify for initial eligibility, the employee must have been on active full-time 
employment for a least 39 calendar week (273 calendar days) for six consecutive years 
and an employee on October 1. Periods of active full-time employment of less than 39 
calendar weeks will be counted toward the employee's years of continuous service. 
 
-123 Continuing Eligibility - After establishing initial eligibility employees must be 
actively employed fulltime for 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) during the 
longevity year and an employee as of October 1 to receive the longevity payment on 
December 1. Periods of active employment of less than 39 calendar weeks, while not 
qualifying the employee for payment of longevity, shall be counted toward the 
employee's years of continuous service. 

 
-124 Payments to employees who are eligible each October 1 will be paid on December 
1. No longevity payment as shown in the schedule following shall be made for that 
portion of an employee's regular wage which is in excess of $9,500. 
 
-125 Longevity Pay Schedule: 
Continuous Service Annual Percentage 
6 or more and less than 10 years 2% of annual wage 
10 or more and less than 14 years 3% of annual wage 
14 or more and less than 18 years 4% of annual wage 
18 or more and less than 22 years 5% of annual wage 
22 or more and less than 26 years 6% of annual wage 
26 or more years 8% of annual wage 

 

ARTICLE 19 

HEALTH-DENTAL CARE COVERAGE 

 
-126 If coverage is desired, full-time regular employees may enroll for health insurance 
coverage within sixty (60) days of their employment date. The employee can select either 
Blue Cross/Blue Shield, Blue Care Network or Physicians Health Plan. Upon the 
establishment of eligibility and enrollment for the health care coverage selected by the 
regular, full-time employee, the Employer will contribute toward the monthly premium 
costs as follows: 
 

a) The Employer will pay the full amount of the single subscriber rate regardless 

of the medical plan selected. 
 

b) The Employer's contribution to the applicable total premium cost of two-party 

or family coverage for the Blue Cross/Blue Shield programs will be equal to that 
provided to Administrative-Professional employees. The family contribution amount may 
also be applied to the monthly premium cost of either two-party or family coverage under 
Blue Care Network or Physicians Health Plan. 
 
-127 Regular full-time employees are provided a dental program. 
 

ARTICLE 20 

EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLAN 

 
-128 If coverage is desired, the University will make available to regular full-time 
employees a group life plan. The plan is entirely funded from employee premiums, and 
rates are subject to future group experience. The coverage is decreasing term with no 
cash or loan value. Employees may select coverage under one option: either salary 
indexed or fixed benefit. 
 
-129 Participation in the plan is optional. However, if enrollment does not take place 
within 60 days of employment, the employee forfeits the right to participate at a later 

time without submitting satisfactory evidence of insurability. 
 

ARTICLE 21 
SICK LEAVE 

 
-130 Full-time employees accrue leave credits at the rate of four (4) hours for each two 
(2) weeks of service. Employees may use sick leave after they have completed their first 
month of service. Maximum accrual is 1,200 hours. 
 
-131 Sick leave shall be available for use by employees for the following purposes: 
 

a) Acute personal illness or incapacity over which the employee has no reasonable 

control. 
 

b) Absence from work because of exposure to contagious disease which, 

according to public health standards, would constitute a danger to the health of others by 
the employee's attendance at work. Should any employee of the bargaining unit be 
quarantined because of exposure to contagious disease during the course of his/her 
employment, he/she shall not lose sick leave. 
 

c) Medical and dental care to the extent of time required to complete such 

appointments when it is not possible to arrange such appointments for non-duty hours. 
 
-132 All employees shall accumulate sick leave from the date they are hired. 
 
-133 A regular full-time employee with ninety (90) days of continuous service who 
suffers injury compensable under the Workers’ Compensation Act shall continue to 
receive his/her regular rate for time lost during the first seven (7) days not covered by the 
Workers’ Compensation Act provided he/she follows the instructions of the University 
Physician, and provided he/she returns to work not later than the time recommended by 
the University Physician. Following the first seven (7) days, such employee shall be paid 
the difference between his/her regular wages and payment received under provisions of 
the Act, to be deducted from accumulated sick leave until his/her sick leave is exhausted. 
Should an employee recover sufficiently to return to work, the University will attempt to 
reassign the employee a job based upon his/her work abilities, experience and 
qualifications. 
 
-134 Employees who have exhausted their sick leave credit and are still unable to return 
to work may, as an option, continue to receive their pay by using their accrued vacation 
credit. 
 
-135 Employees who are laid off shall have available any unused sick leave previously 
earned, effective at the time they are recalled. 
 
-136 Employees who leave to enter the Armed Services of the United States under 
provisions of the Selective Service Act, who are members of the Armed Forces and are 

called to active duty, who enlist in the Armed Forces during a declared national 
emergency shall, upon reemployment by the Employer, have available any unused sick 
leave previously earned; provided that such reemployment takes place within ninety (90) 
days after discharge or release from active duty in the Armed Forces. 
 
-137 An employee using sick leave during a period that includes a scheduled holiday will 
be paid for the holiday. He/She cannot be paid for both on the same day, nor will he/she 
be charged for a day of sick leave. 
 
-138 Each Supervisor shall be responsible for reviewing employee requests for sick leave 
and determining their validity, and may request a statement from a personal physician 
concerning his/her disability. 
 
-139 All payments for sick leave shall be made at the employee's base rate of pay. 
 
-140 An employee may use accrued sick leave credits not to exceed twenty-four (24) 
hours in a fiscal year for the illness of a member of the immediate family. An additional 
sixteen (16) hours may be used for the care of dependent children who are ill. The total 
number of hours shall not exceed forty (40). 
 
-141 The Employer, for cause, may direct an employee to go on sick leave. 
 

ARTICLE 22 

MEDICAL DISPUTE 

 
-142 In the event of a dispute involving any employee's physical ability to perform 
his/her job on his/her return to work at the University from a layoff or leave of absence of 
any kind and the employee is not satisfied with the determination of the University's 
physician, he/she may submit a report from a medical doctor of his/her own choosing and 
at his/her own expense. If the dispute still exists, at the request of the Lodge, the 
University's physician and the employee's doctor shall agree upon a third medical doctor 
to submit a report to the Employer and the employee, and the decision of such third party 
will be binding on both parties. The expense of the report of the third party shall be 
shared equally by the Employer and the employee. 
 

ARTICLE 23 

FUNERAL LEAVE 

 
-143 If death occurs among members of an employee's immediate family, the employee 
will be excused from work to attend the funeral and make other necessary arrangements 
without loss of pay from the day of death until the day after the funeral (including both 
the day of the death and the day after the funeral). Employees will be paid for the number 
of scheduled working days excused up to a maximum of three (3) days). 
 
-144 Definition of the Employee’s Immediate Family – The employee’s immediate 
family shall be interpreted as including spouse, child, stepchild, parents, legal guardian, 

sister, brother, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-
law, son-in-law, grandparents, grandparents-inlaw, grandchild, stepparents, half brother, 
half sister, stepbrother, stepsister, and same-sex domestic partner as provided for in the 
Board of Trustee resolution dated September 8, 1997. 
 
-145 One day, the day of the funeral, is allowed in the case of the death of an employee's 
or spouse's uncle, aunt, nephew, or niece. (For the purpose of this article, "aunt" shall 
include the uncle's wife and "uncle" shall include the aunt's husband.). 
 
-146 Permission will be granted to a reasonable number of employees in a unit who wish 
to attend the funeral of a fellow employee or former employee, provided they return to 
work after the funeral. Employees who serve as pallbearers at a funeral of a fellow 
employee or former employee will be paid during the time they must be off the job. 
 
-147 If scheduling permits, permission will be granted to a maximum of two (2) on-duty 
employees for one (1) regularly scheduled day, utilizing a department vehicle if available, 
to attend the funeral of a police officer killed in the line of duty anywhere in the State of 
Michigan. 
 

ARTICLE 24 

LEAVE FOR LODGE CONFERENCES OR CONVENTIONS 

 
-148 The Employer will grant leaves of absence with pay to Lodge members of the 
bargaining unit of the Fraternal Order of Police for the following functions: 
 

a) Two (2) persons for five (5) days every other calendar year to attend FOP 

national meetings. Two (2) pass days will be granted at the beginning and two (2) pass 
days at the end of the requested period, upon request. 
 

b) Two (2) persons for three (3) days to attend the FOP State of Michigan meeting 

each calendar year. One (1) pass day will be granted at the beginning and one (1) pass 
day at the end of the requested period, upon request. 
 
-149 Requests for such leave shall be filed in writing with the Director of Police and 
Public Safety, or his representative, by the 5th day of the month preceding the month in 
which the leave is desired. 
 

ARTICLE 25 

DEATH BENEFIT INSURANCE (EXPANDED LIFE PLAN) 

 
-150 Effective January 1, 1989, the Employer will provide, at no employee cost, a fully 
paid life plan to all regular full-time employees at the time of hire. 
 
-151 This program will provide a life insurance benefit in the case of death of an eligible 
employee on active duty status (including leaves of absence of 180 days or less) equal to 
one year's annual base salary or wage (i.e., basic hourly rate times 2080). Accrued sick 

leave, vacation, personal leave, and longevity pay are included in the expanded life 
insurance payment; they are not in addition to it. 
 
-152 The employee may designate a beneficiary if desired; if none is designated the 
expanded life insurance benefit payment will be made to the beneficiary under the 
Employee Paid Life Program if enrolled; otherwise payment will be made in a lump sum 
to the estate. 
 

ARTICLE 26 

EXTENDED DISABILITY PLAN 

 
-153 Eligibility - Regular full-time employees with at least five (5) years of continuous 
full-time employment are eligible for extended disability leave. 
 
-154 Usage - In cases which are expected to result in total disability (as defined in LTD 
master contract), eligible employees will be granted extended disability leave with full 
pay and benefits for up to six months or until all accruals are exhausted, whichever 
occurs later. This leave will include the aggregate of accumulated sick leave, vacation 
and personal time to the extent these benefits are due the employee. The total aggregate 
of all paid leaves, when used for total disability will specifically end in six (6) months or 
when the total aggregate of all paid leaves is exhausted, whichever occurs later. 
 

ARTICLE 27 

LONG-TERM DISABILITY PLAN 

 
-155 A University-paid Long-Term Disability plan will be provided for all regular full-
time employees. 
 
-156 After a 180 day disability waiting period, the Long-Term Disability program 
provides for a continuation of the monthly wage equal to 60% of the monthly base salary, 
up to a maximum monthly benefit of $3,000 (including any offsets stipulated in the 
master contract, e.g. benefits from social security or Workers’ Compensation). The Long-
Term Disability program includes a 3% cost of living rider and a $50 per month 
minimum benefit. 
 
-157 The Long-Term Disability program also pays the employee's 5% contribution and 
the University's 10% contribution to the TIAA-CREF retirement program or other 
retirement program made available through the University that is selected by the 
employee. 
 
-158 If disability commences at or prior to age 60, benefits are payable under this 
program to age 65. If the disability commences after age 60, benefits are payable for five 
years or to age 70, whichever is sooner. When LTD benefits cease as described above, 
the employee may begin to receive his/her retirement annuity. 
 
-159 At the University's expense, a disabled employee may continue to participate in the 

ARTICLE 28 

RETIREMENT BENEFITS 

basic group life and health care and dental programs, if the employee is not on the active 
payroll. 
 
-160 The employee should contact the Benefits Office for information on Long-Term 
Disability benefits as soon as it appears that he/she may be off work for 180 days or 
more. 
 

 
-161 Complete details concerning the provision of the University's retirement plan 
applicable to this bargaining unit are outlined in a brochure which may be obtained from 
the Benefits office. The plan shall be available to members of the bargaining unit upon 
employment and participation will be compulsory for employees who have attained age 
thirty-five (35) and have two (2) years of service. 
 
-162 Mandatory Age - Termination or retirement shall be compulsory on the first day of 
the month following attainment of age 70. 
 
-163 University Retirement Defined - University retirement shall be defined as 1) 
attainment of age 62 with 15 years of continuous full-time employment, or 2) at any age 
with 25 years of continuous full-time employment. 
 
-164 An employee who retires under the definition in paragraph 163 shall be paid for 
fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave, but not to exceed a maximum of fifty (50) 
percent of one thousand two hundred (1,200) hours, as of the effective date of separation. 
 
-165 An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in 
paragraph 161 but has at least five (5) years, but less than ten (10) years of continuous 
service and has attained 65 years of age at the time of his/her separation shall be paid 
fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation. An 
employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in paragraph 162 
but has at least ten (10) years of continuous service and has attained 65 years of age at the 
time of his/her separation shall be paid one hundred (100) percent of his/her unused sick 
leave as of the effective date of separation but not to exceed a maximum of one thousand 
(1,000) hours unless he/she has received a University contribution to TIAA/CREF, in 
which case he/she shall be paid as in paragraph 163. 
 
-166 Prorated longevity payments shall be made to those employees who retire under the 
definition of University Retirement in paragraph 163 prior to October first of any year. 
This also applies to those employees not under the definition of University Retirement in 
paragraph 163 but who are 65 years of age at the time of their separation. Such prorated 
payments as indicated above shall be based on the number of calendar months of full-
time service credited to an employee from the preceding October first to the date of 
retirement or separation and shall be made as soon as practicable thereafter. 
 

ARTICLE 29 
UNIFORMS 

 
-167 A. In the selection, procurement and issuance of uniforms, the Employer will give 
due consideration to the items, numbers, materials and quality consistent with the needs, 
use, function and responsibility of the officer. 
 
B. The Employer will supply all police officers with “Uniform Boots.” These “Uniform 
Boots” will be replaced by the Employer as needed consistent with the procedures for 
replacement of other Employer supplied equipment. 
 
-168 The University will be responsible for and pay for the dry cleaning of issued 
uniforms. 
 
-169 Officers assigned to the Investigations Section as investigators shall be allowed no 
more than $500.00 to purchase clothing to be used in the performance of their duties. 
Officers assigned as investigators to the Investigations Section shall also receive a 
$100.00 allowance for dry cleaning. The cleaning and clothing allowances shall be 
combined and paid quarterly in advance in increments of $150.00. If an employee leaves 
or is reassigned, a pro-rata adjustment will be made for the advance payment. 
 

ARTICLE 30 

AUTOMOBILES AND EQUIPMENT 

 
-170 In the procurement of motor vehicles for patrol purposes the Employer shall use best 
efforts to secure automobiles and equipment of quality, design and construction 
commensurate with the function and responsibility to be performed and reasonably 
related to the safety of the officer involved. 
 
-171 The Employer agrees to meet and confer with the Division President or his/her 
designee regarding specifications for new vehicles for patrol use. 
 
-172 At the time of fleet changeover, administrative vehicles will be placed, wherever 
possible, into nonpatrol functions. 
 

ARTICLE 31 

LIABILITY INSURANCE 

 
-173 It is the policy of the institution to support its officers, faculty and staff in the 
performance of their official duties to support students and volunteers and when 
performing services arising out of their employment with and under the direction or 
approval of the University. The services and duties described herein include but are not 
limited to participation in a wide range of University committees, panels and boards. 
Should the above identified parties become involved in litigation because of such 
activities, the University will assume their defense, provide legal counsel and satisfy 
resulting judgments against them. 

 
-174 Should the Employer fail to obtain the insurance coverage above set forth, it shall be 
deemed by this contract to have become a self-insurer, and will protect said employees in 
the same manner and on the same terms and conditions as if it had secured the liability 
insurance coverage. 
 

ARTICLE 32 

EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 

 
-175 Full-time employees who meet the following provisions may apply for 
reimbursement or tuition waiver for up to sixteen (16) credits per academic year, which 
are job related or promote professional development, under the educational assistance 
program: 
 
A. Completion of 12 continuous full-time equivalent service months prior to the first day 
that classes begin at the institution. 
 
B.  
administrator or designee and submission of Educational Assistance Application to 
Human Resources 
Development (HRD), five (5) working days prior to the first day classes begin at the 
institution. 
 

1. Reimbursement: Approval of the credit course(s) by the department 

2. Waiver: Approval of the credit course(s) by the department administrator or 

designee, and submission of the Educational Assistance Application to HRD thirty (30) 
days prior to the enrollment billing date set by the Fees and Scholarships Office. 
 
C. Completion of the credit course(s) at an accredited college or university with a 2.0 or 
better grade. 
 
-176 There shall be no released time from the work schedule to attend class. 
 
-177 Reimbursement - To receive reimbursement, the employee shall submit evidence 
that he/she has successfully completed the course to HRD. 
 
-178 A. Reimbursement for the courses will be at the MSU per credit tuition rate not to 
exceed sixteen (16) credits per academic year, plus the MSU matriculation fee where 
applicable. 
 
B. Tuition Waiver: 
 

1. Bargaining unit members who are eligible for educational assistance shall be 

eligible for a tuition waiver program. This tuition waiver program will be applicable only 
to those MSU courses enrolled in through the University's oncampus enrollment 
procedure. As a condition of tuition waiver, an employee must sign an agreement 
authorizing payroll deduction for the amount of tuition waived to be used in the event 

she/he does not successfully complete the course(s). 
 

2. Employees interested in utilizing the tuition waiver program must submit their 
educational assistance application complete with departmental approval to HRD 30 days 
prior to the semester billing date set by the Fees and Scholarships office. The application 
must be marked with a request for tuition waiver. 
 

3. If the above timelines are met and the educational assistance application is 
approved, HRD will forward a list of employees eligible for tuition waiver to the Fees 
and Scholarship Office and to the Lodge. 
 

4. Employees will be responsible for all charges in excess of the Matriculation 

 
-182 Effective 7-1-2000, the base salary for Public Safety Officers in all pay grades and 
for Sergeants in pay grades V, IV, III, and II shall increase by 3%. Effective 7-1-2000 the 
base salary for Sergeants in pay grade I shall increase by 5%. 
PO SGT 
V $37,443 $40,542 
IV 41,113 43,886 
III 43,067 46,824 
II 45,109 49,427 
I 48,949 53,893 

Fees and in excess of sixteen (16) credits per academic year. 
 

5. Employees who have had their tuition waived will authorize HRD to verify 

completion of approved courses with Enrollment Services upon application for waiver. In 
cases where tuition waivers are withdrawn (e.g., terminated employee, non-approved 
course, unsuccessful completion), the Union agrees that the University will payroll 
deduct the waived tuition. 
 
-179 If the employee is covered by benefits such as scholarships or fellowship aid, 
government aid, G.I. bill benefits, or similar assistance, reimbursement will be made only 
for that portion of the tuition fee which exceeds the amount of those benefits. Employees 
are expected to seek compensation or reimbursement from non-University funds when 
eligible and where conditions are equal to or better than University benefits. 
 
-180 Educational assistance will terminate on the employee's last day of active 
employment. An employee must complete a course as an active employee in order to 
receive tuition reimbursement. 
 
-181 Course Fee Courtesy Program - Employees with 60 continuous full-time equivalent 
service months are eligible under the Course-Fee Courtesy Program as it is provided to 
the faculty of the University. 
 

ARTICLE 33 

WAGES 

 
-183 Effective 7-1-2001, the base salary for each employee in the bargaining unit will be 
increased by 3%. 
 

1. A one percent (1%) lump sum (not in the base) payment, of the July 2, 2001 

base (hourly rate times 2080 hours) shall be made to all employees in the bargaining unit 
on the payroll as of July 1, 2001 as a one-time payment. 
PO SGT 
V $38,566 $41,758 
IV 42,346 45,203 
III 44,359 48,229 
II 46,462 50,910 
I 50,417 55,510 
 
-184 Effective 7-1-2002, the base salary for each employee in the bargaining unit will be 
increased by 1%. 
PO SGT 
V $38,952 $42,176 
IV 42,769 45,655 
III 44,803 48,711 
II 46,927 51,419 
I 50,921 56,065 
 
-185 All officers who are assigned to regularly scheduled rotating shifts shall receive an 
increase in shift differential of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month added to their monthly 
salary. In the event the department develops and implements a fixed shift schedule, the 
parties agree to negotiate the shift premium concept. 
 
-186 This Agreement shall be effective from and after July 1, 2000, until and including 
June 30, 2003, with respect to all provisions of this Agreement. 
 

ARTICLE 34 

SAVINGS CLAUSE 

 
-187 If any provision of this Agreement, or any supplement thereto, is found invalid by 
operation of law or by any board or court of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with 
or enforcement of any provision should be permanently restrained by any such court, the 
remainder of this Agreement, and any supplements thereto, shall remain in full force and 
effect, and the Employer and the Lodge at the request of either party, shall enter into 
negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such 
provision or supplement. 
 

ARTICLE 35 

TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT 

 
-188 Ratification - The Employer's Negotiating Committee shall submit to, and shall 

recommend that the University ratify this Agreement only after the Lodge submits this 
Agreement to, and receives ratification by the employees within the bargaining unit, and 
the Employer's Director of Employee Relations receives from the Lodge, written 
notification thereof. 
 
-189 Effective and Termination Dates - This Agreement shall become effective, subject 
to the ratification process explained in paragraph 187 of this Article, on the 1st day of 
July, 2000, and it shall continue in full force and effect until 11:59 p.m. on the 30th day 
of June, 2003, and for successive annual periods thereafter unless, not more than one 
hundred-eighty (180) days, but at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of its original term 
or of any annual period thereafter, either party shall serve upon the other written notice 
that it desires termination, revision, modification, alteration, renegotiation, change or 
amendment, or any combination thereof, and such written notice shall have the effect of 
terminating this Agreement in its entirety on the expiration date in the same manner as a 
notice of a desire to terminate. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS THIS 
________________DAY OF ___________________________, 2001 
FOR THE LODGE FOR THE EMPLOYER 
 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

 
In the agreement between Michigan State University, hereinafter referred to as the 
"Employer" and Lodge 141, of the Fraternal Order of Police, Michigan State University 
Division, hereinafter referred to as the "Lodge" and for the period commencing July 1, 
1991, the parties further agree as follows: 
 
A. The department will equip its full-marked sedan style patrol cars with: 

1. Shotgun locks placed in the front seat of the vehicle. 
2. Prisoner transport shields. 
3. Flood light atop the vehicle. 
4. Remote control outside rear-view mirror. 
5. Rear window defrosters. 
6. Patrol vehicles specifically outfitted to accommodate canines will be provided 

with a canine transport cage. 
 
B. Officers may arrange use of the Intramural Building facilities with that person 
responsible for the building. Such arrangements shall be between the individual officer 
and I.M. Building Management. 
 
C. Any member of the negotiating committee who is unable to obtain sufficient sleep 
between scheduled duty time due to negotiating, may request of the shift supervisor to be 
excused from the shift, until sufficient sleep can be acquired at which time the employee 
may be rescheduled to make up the time lost. 
 
D. The University will grant the president or his/her designee of the Michigan State 
University Division two (2) additional personal leave days per year to be used in 

accordance with Article 15, paragraph 89 to attend to division business. 
 
E. The University will grant the president or his/her designee of the Michigan State 
University Division a total of ten (10) hours per calendar month non-cumulative to be 
excused from duty with pay to be taken in increments of no less than one (1) hour to 
attend to Lodge 141 business provided prior approval is obtained from their supervisor. 
 
F. Any adjustments in the program or University contribution amounts for the 
Administrative- Professional employees in the following Insurance and Benefit programs 
during the term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended members of this 
bargaining unit. 

1. Health Care Coverage 
2. Employee Paid Life Plan 
3. Longevity 
4. Expanded Life Plan 
5. Long-Term Disability Plan 
6. Base Retirement Program 
7. Extended Disability Plan 
8. Dental Program 

 
G. Should the Employer provide Optical Insurance to any bargaining unit at Michigan 
State University, that coverage shall be automatically extended to members of the Lodge. 
 
H. Should the University, for whatever reason, deem it necessary to specify an off-duty 
handgun, the University will issue such a gun. Should a sworn officer carry a handgun off 
duty, the officer must carry a University issued two (2) inch handgun. However, an 
officer may elect to carry his/her own handgun other than the department-issued handgun 
if the following criteria are met: (1) the handgun must be a comparable caliber and must 
be approved by the department; (2) the officer must qualify for training on his/her own 
time; and (3) the officer must use his/her own ammunition which must be approved by 
the department, unless their personal weapon chambers departmental ammunition. 
 
I. Should the University provide Administrative-Professional employees with any 
additional University designated holidays, not already described in Article 17, these 
holidays shall be extended to the members of the Lodge. 
 
J. When it becomes necessary to provide members of the bargaining unit with meals 
because of the nature of their particular work assignment, the Employer shall compensate 
employees for meals purchased, not to exceed 1/4 hour of the employee's overtime rate 
for six (6) hours or more of overtime worked and an additional 1/4 hour at the employee's 
overtime rate for ten (10) hours or more of overtime worked. 
 
K. Employees who become parents of or who adopt a child shall be entitled to an unpaid 
parental or adoption leave of up to three (3) months to commence on or before the date of 
birth or the date of adoption, as determined by the employee. 
 

L. An employee shall be granted a maternity leave of absence upon the submission of a 
letter from a physician giving the projected delivery date. The Office of Human Resource 
Services will not require further medical documentation covering absences for a 
pregnancy when it occurs within a period of four weeks before the projected delivery date 
and eight (8) weeks following the delivery date. Beyond these periods, a statement will 
be required from the employee's physician stating the reasons for the requested leave 
extension. Leaves associated with pregnancy may be either with or without pay, 
depending on an employee's accumulated sick and/or vacation leave. 
 
M. The Employer will pay a special clothing allowance of $300.00 to an employee who 
officially notifies the Employer of pregnancy and remains on duty to within four weeks 
of the projected delivery date. This payment will be made when the employee receives a 
light duty assignment. Exceptions may be made to this provision for reasons acceptable 
to the Employer. 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY FOR THE UNION 
__________________________ _______________________ 
Samuel A. Baker Daniel Beachnau 
Director, Employee Relations President, FOP 
University Division 
Date______________________ Date___________________ 
This Memorandum of Understanding amended pursuant to negotiations in 1988. 
Specifically, former paragraphs B and D were deleted, and the remaining paragraphs 
were correctly, sequentially labeled. 
This Memorandum of Understanding amended pursuant to negotiations in 1994/1995. 
Specifically, reference to the Board of Trustees was deleted, and the cross reference in 
paragraph E correctly labeled. 
This Memorandum of Understanding amended pursuant to negotiations in 1997. 
Specifically, former paragraph A was deleted, the remaining paragraphs were correctly, 
sequentially labeled, and the special clothing allowance in paragraph M was increased to 
$300.00. 
 

INDEX 

 
TOPIC PAGE 
Accrual... ...............................................................................18, 27-28 
Adoption Leave ......................................................................42 
Agency Shop Provision ...........................................................5 
Agreement ..............................................................................1, 38 
Appeal Board .........................................................................10-12 
Arbitration...............................................................................8-9 
Automobiles and Equipment.....................................................33, 36 
Bargaining Committee .................................................6 
Call-back Time .......................................................................16, 22-23 
Checkoff. ...............................................................................3-5 
Clothing Allowance..................................................................33, 42 
Compensatory Time ................................................................22 

Compensation - Meals.................................................41 
Course-Fee Courtesy Program....................................36 
Death Benefit Insurance...........................................................30 
Definitions 
Definition of Bargaining Unit.....................................2 
Employee's Immediate Family..............................................29 
Layoff ...............................................................................14-15 
Longevity Year ...................................................................24 
Normal Work Cycle............................................................20 
Normal Work Day..............................................................21 
Normal Work Week ...........................................................21 
On-Call...............................................................................21 
Pass Days ...........................................................................16 
Unit Seniority.......................................................................13 
University Retirement ..........................................................32-33 
University Seniority..................................................13 
Dental Program.......................................................................26, 41 
Disability Plan .............................................................31-32, 37 
Discharge & Discipline.................................................10-12 
Dues. . .... ...............................................................................3-5 
Educational Assistance.................................................34-36 
Employee Paid Life Plan . . .....................................................26 
Emergency Situations...............................................................21-22 
Equipment ...............................................................................33-34, 40 
Expanded Life Plan..................................................................30, 41 
Extended Disability Plan...........................................................31, 41 
Funeral Leave..........................................................................29 
TOPIC PAGE 
Grievance Procedure 
Step I, II ..............................................................................7-8 
Step III ................................................................... ...........8 
Step IV ...............................................................................8-9 
Group Life Insurance...............................................................26, 41 
Handgun.. ...............................................................................41 
Holidays.. ...............................................................................23-24 
Insurance 
Adjustments .........................................................................40 
Death Benefit Insurance........................................................30 
Extended Disability Plan........................................................31, 41 
Health Insurance ..................................................................26 
Liability ...................................................................34 
Long-Term Disability Plan.....................................................31-32 
Retirement Benefits...............................................................32-33 
Layoff & Recall.......................................................................14-15 
Definition..............................................................................14 
Order of Layoff....................................................................14 

Demotion in Lieu of Layoff........................................14 
Notice of Layoff...................................................................14 
Preferred Eligibility Lists........................................................14-15 
Recall from Layoff................................................................15 
Restoration to Positions from which Demoted .......................15 
Leave for Lodge Conferences or Conventions..............30 
Liability Insurance....................................................................34 
Life Insurance..........................................................................26 
Lodge Bargaining Committee.......................................6 
Lodge Security & Checkoff.....................................................3-5 
Longevity Pay..............................................................24-25 
Longevity Year........................................................................24 
Initial Eligibility......................................................................25 
Continuing Eligibility..................................................25 
Long-Term Disability Plan........................................................31-32, 41 
Management Rights ................................................................. 2 
Management Security.................................................. ...........3 
Mandatory Age .......................................................................32 
Maternity Leave ......................................................................42 
Medical Coverage ...................................................................26 
Medical Dispute ......................................................................28 
Memorandum of Understanding...............................................40-42 
Military Leave .............................................................28 
TOPIC . PAGE 
Negotiations ............................................................................12,40 
Notification...........................................................................2 
On-call. ...............................................................................21 
Overtime ..............................................................................16, 21 
Emergency situations.................................................21-22 
Scheduled events..................................................................22 
Recruit schools .....................................................................22 
Court hearings ......................................................................22 
Officer in Charge .....................................................................17 
Parental Leave.............................................................42 
Pass Days ...............................................................................16 
Personal Leave Time ...............................................................19-20, 40 
Probationary Period ................................................................ 6 
Pyramiding ..............................................................................23 
Ratification..............................................................................38 
Recognition of the Lodge .........................................................1-2 
Reimbursement for Classes......................................................34-35 
Reimbursement for Uniforms....................................................33 
Released Time, President, Vice President.................................40 
Reprimand...............................................................................10 
Retirement Benefits..................................................................32-33 
Savings Clause ............................................................38 

Scheduling...............................................................................16-17 
Seniority.. ...............................................................................13 
Seniority Lists..............................................................13 
Seniority, Loss of.....................................................................15-16 
Shift Differential . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . ..............38........ 
Sick Leave ..............................................................................27-28 
Special Meetings .....................................................................12-13 
Special Pass Days ...................................................................23-24 
Terms of This Agreement.........................................................38 
Time and One-Half Straight Hourly Rate..................................22 
Time and One-Half Compensatory Time Rate..............22 
Uniforms . ...............................................................................33 
Unit Seniority...........................................................................13 
University Retirement Defined......................................32 
University Seniority..................................................................13 
Vacation Accrual.....................................................................18 
Vacation Leave .......................................................................17-18 
Wages .... ...............................................................................37-38 
Workers’ Compensation..........................................................24, 27 
 

