Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

22

Language English

Country United States

State

FL

Union National Federation of Public and Private Employees (AFL-CIO)

Local

"Blue Collar"

Automotive service technicians and mechanics 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Government Supervisors of Broward Co., FL
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2002

Source

http://www.broward.org/hui02827.pdf

Original_format PDF (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

AGREEMENT

-Between-

THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

-And-

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, 

A DIVISION OF THE NATIONAL FEDERATION 

OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EMPLOYEES (AFL-CIO)

Effective FY 1999/2000, 2000/2001 and, 2001/2002

ARTICLE NO.       SUBJECT

PAGE(S)

INDEX

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

    10

    10B

    11

    12

    13

    14

    15

    16

    17

    18

    19

    20

    21

    22

    23

    24

    25
    
    26

Preamble..............................

I 

Recognition...........................

1,1a,1b

Definitions...........................

2,2a,2b

Management Rights.....................

3

Employee Rights.......................

4,4a,4b

Wages and Compensation................

5,5a,5b,5c,5d,5e,5f,5g,5h

Hours of Work and Overtime............

6,6a,6b,6c,6d,6e,6f

Annual Leave..........................

Holidays..............................

7,7a

8,8a

Benefits..............................

9,9a,9b

Sick Leave............................

10,10a

Family Illness Leave..................

Bereavement Leave.....................

10b

11

Seniority.............................

12,12a,12b

Promotion Policy......................

13,13a

Leave of Absence Without Pay..........

14,14a,14b

Grievance Procedure...................

15,15a,15b,15c

Federation Business...................

16,16a,16b

Dues Deduction........................

17,17a

Savings/Prevailing Rights Clause......

18

Safety................................

19,19a,19b

Personal Vehicle Compensation.........

No Strikes or Lockouts................

Military Leave........................

Voting/Civil Leave....................

20

21

22

23

Drug and Alcohol Testing..............

24,24a,24b,24c

Physical Examinations.................

Term of Agreement.....................

25

26

    
    27
    
    28

Letters of Understanding..............    27,27a,27b,27c,27d

Signature Page........................

28

Appendix A - Pay Plan

PREAMBLE Back to Table of Contents

This agreement is entered into this ______day of ________________,1999, by and

between the County of Broward, Florida, hereinafter referred to as the "County" and the

Federation  of  Public  Employees,  a  division  of  the  National  Federation  of  Public  and

Private  Employees  (AFL-CIO)  hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  "Federation."    It  is  the

purpose of this Agreement to promote harmonious relations between the County and its

employees  and  to  establish  an  orderly  and  peaceful  procedure  in  the  settlement  of

differences  which  might  arise  and  to  provide  for  joint  collective  bargaining  in  the

determination of wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment of employees

covered by this Agreement.  It is recognized that it is the responsibility of the County

government to provide services effecting the health and welfare of the citizens of the

County and that this Agreement between the County and the Federation will serve that end.

 I

Blue Collar 

ARTICLE 1 Back to Table of Contents

RECOGNITION

The County, in accordance with a Certification of the Public Employees Relations

Commission of the State of Florida dated the 25th day of May, 1979, Case No. RC-77-089,

hereby  recognizes  the  Federation  of  Public  Employees,  a  division  of  the  National

Federation of Public and Private Employees (AFL-CIO) as sole and exclusive bargaining

agent  for  the  purpose  of  collective  bargaining  with  respect  to  wages,  hours  and

conditions  of  employment  for  those  employees  of  the  County  working  within  the  unit

certified pursuant to the aforementioned case number and as amended by mutual agreement

of the parties.  

INCLUDED - All regular part-time and regular full-time employees employed by the Broward
County Board of County Commissioners in the following positions:

JOB CLASS TITLE

Printing Technician I
Printing Technician II
Storekeeper I
Storekeeper II
Stores Supervisor
Sign Shop Technician I
Sign Shop Technician II
Traffic Signals Technician I
Traffic Signals Technician II
Traffic Signals Technician III
Park Aide I
Park Aide II
Stable Attendant I
Stable Attendant II
Stable Attendant III
Animal Care Specialist I
Animal Care Specialist II
Animal Care Specialist III
Land Use Technician
Land Use Inspector I
Land Use Inspector II
Building Code Inspector
Security Guard I
Security Guard II
Forensic Technician I
Forensic Technician II
Mosquito Control Inspector I

1

Blue Collar

Mosquito Control Inspector II
Aquatic Control Worker I
Aquatic Control Worker II
Cook I
Cook II
Equipment Operator I

JOB CLASS TITLE

Equipment Operator II
Equipment Operator III
Equipment Operator IV
Equipment Operator V
Bridgetender
Fleet Service Attendant
Fleet Service Supervisor
Automotive Mechanic I
Automotive Mechanic II
Automotive Mechanic III
Meter Reader
Meter Repairer I
Meter Repairer II
Plant Operator I
Plant Operator II
Utilities Mechanic I
Utilities Mechanic II
Carpenter I
Carpenter II
Painter I
Painter II
Electrician I
Electrician II
Plumber I
Plumber II
Welder
Locksmith
Refrigeration Mechanic I
Refrigeration Mechanic II
Custodian I
Custodian II
Maintenance Worker I
Maintenance Worker II
Maintenance Mechanic I
Maintenance Mechanic II
Groundskeeper
Electronics Technician I
Electronics Technician II
Electronics Technician III
Weighstation Operator
Traffic Control Worker I
Traffic Control Worker II
Concession Attendant
Lifeguard
Range Attendant
Machinist

1a

Blue Collar

Bridge Mechanic
Animal Care Operations Aide
Community Development Housing Inspector I
Community Development Housing Inspector II
Plans Examiner
Senior Lifeguard
Range Aide
Automotive Electrical Technician I
Automotive Electrical Technician II
Automotive Electrical Technician III
Park Ranger I
Park Ranger II

JOB CLASS TITLE

Airside Operations Specialist
Auto Body Repair Specialist
Building Code Specialist
Landside Operations Specialist
Airport Operations Agent I
Airport Operations Agent II
Blasting Specialist
Code Enforcement Officer
Zoning Plans Examiner
Code Enforcement Aide
Landscape Inspector
Senior Blasting Specialist
Senior Code Enforcement Officer

EXCLUDED - Office Clerical employees, technical employees, managerial employees,
confidential employees, CETA employees, casual and temporary employees, and all
other  employees  of  the  Broward  County  Board  of  County  Commissioners  not
specifically included above.

1b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 2 Back to Table of Contents

DEFINITIONS

Terms in this Agreement shall be defined as follows:

A.

Federation of Public Employees, a division of the National Federation

of Public and Private Employees (AFL-CIO) which has been granted the right to

represent  exclusively  the  members  of  the  bargaining  unit  Association  is

synonymous with "FPE" when referred to herein.

B.

"Agreement" - - That document which delineates the items and terms

which were mutually agreed to as the result of collective bargaining.

C.

"Unit"  -  -  That  group  of  employees  determined  by  the  County  of

Broward, Florida and FPE and approved by the Florida Public Employees Relations

Commission to be appropriate for the purpose of collective bargaining.

D.

"Collective Bargaining" - - The performance of mutual obligations of

the public employer and the bargaining agent of the employee organization to meet

at  reasonable  times,  to  negotiate  in  good  faith,  and  to  execute  a  written

contract  with  respect  to  agreements  reached  concerning  wages,  hours,  and

conditions of employment.

E.

"PERC" - - Public Employees Relations Commission, a regulatory state

agency created under CH. 447 (F.S.).

F.

"PERA" - - Public Employees Relations Act, CH. 447 (F.S.) governing

collective bargaining with public employees.

G.

"Seniority" - - Shall be defined as the length of continuous service

with  the  County  of  Broward,  Florida  as  a  member  of  the  unit.    "Continuous

Service" means uninterrupted employment with the County of Broward, Florida.

H.

"Immediate  Supervisor"  --  That  person  in  an  administrative  or

supervisory position directly responsible for the supervision and direction of

2

Blue Collar

an  employee  and  to  whom  the  employee  is  directly  responsible.    An  immediate

supervisor who is a unit member shall be excluded from responding to grievances

pursuant to Article 15.

I.

"Employee" - - That person in the bargaining unit as described in

Paragraph C, above.

J.

"Termination"  -  -  The  act  of  separation  from  employment  through

retirement, discharge for just cause, discharge during the probationary period,

voluntary or involuntary resignation, or death.

K.

"Probationary Employee" - - A newly hired employee whether full-time

or part-time who has completed less than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days

of County employment.  The probationary period may be extended for up to an

additional ninety (90) calendar days upon the written request of the Division

Director  and  the  approval  of  the  Director  of  Human  Resources.    Probationary

employees shall be covered by the provisions of this agreement except that no

grievance may be filed on their behalf relating to discipline or discharge from

employment.

L.

"Permanent Employee" - - An employee who has satisfactorily completed

no less than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of employment in a position

which has no predetermined termination date and calls for the employee to work

the basic work period or the normal work week as defined in Article 6 of this

Agreement.

M.

"Regular Part-Time Employee" - - An employee who has satisfactorily

completed no less than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of employment in

a position which calls for the employee to work less than the normal work week

but at least twenty (20) hours per week.

N.

"Temporary or Temporary Part-Time Employees" - - Employees who have

a predetermined termination date.  Temporary employees shall not be covered by

2a

Blue Collar

any of the provisions of this Agreement.

O.

"The Parties" - - County of Broward, Florida, and FPE.

P. 

"Transfer" - - Change in work location within the same job class.

Bargaining  unit  employees  may  request  a  transfer  to  another  vacant  position

within their division by notifying the Division Director in writing.  All written

requests  for  transfer  shall  be  considered  before  a  vacancy  is  filled  by  the

Division.  A notice of request to fill a vacancy will be posted in each Division.

Employees will be made aware of the location for such posting.

2b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 3 Back to Table of Contents

MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

It  is  understood  that  the  County  has  the  right  to  operate  the  various

Divisions of County Government.  In order to accomplish the mission of Broward

County Divisions of the County Government, management will necessarily accomplish

the following, subject to provisions of this Agreement:

A.

discipline, demote, suspend, or discharge an employee or class of

employee for just cause;

B.

C.

D.

E.

hire, promote, retain, and evaluate employees;

layoff employees because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons;

determine what reasonable work activities are performed;

supervise and direct its employees consistent with the mission of

Broward County Divisions of County Government;

F.

G.

determine unilaterally the purpose of the Divisions;

exercise control and discretion over the organization and operation

of Broward County Divisions of County Government;

H.

exercise  those  rights,  powers,  and  authorities  which  the  County

legitimately exercised prior to this Agreement;

I.

fulfill its legal responsibilities wherever such is not inconsistent

with the terms of the Agreement;

J.

set standards of service to be provided to the public, including the

right to subcontract; and

K.

the County has the right to formulate, change, or modify reasonable

Division rules, regulations, and procedures related to operations, except that

no rule, regulation, or procedure shall be formulated, changed, or modified in

a manner contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.

3

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 4 Back to Table of Contents

EMPLOYEE RIGHTS

Section 1.  There shall be no discrimination against any employee covered

by this Agreement by reason of race, creed, color, national origin, sex, sexual

orientation, marital status, age, disability, Federation membership or activity,

or lack of Federation membership or activity.

Section 2.  The parties specifically agree that neither it nor any of its

official  representative  will  intimidate  or  coerce  any  employee  or  group  of

employees to refrain from joining or becoming a member of the Federation.

In the event that the County receives written notice from the Federation

that any employee/supervisor of the County is intimidating or coercing any other

employee or group of employees to refrain from joining or becoming a member of

the Federation, the County shall investigate such allegation, and, if true, the

County has the right to discipline or discharge any employee/supervisor engaging

in, participating in, or encouraging such action that is in violation of this

Section.

Section 3.  Disciplinary notices or documentation of disciplinary action

in any employee's file for which there have been no recurrence of the same nature

in eighteen (18) months shall be void and without effect in that they will not

be used to support further disciplinary action.

All disciplinary actions must be issued to the employee or the union no

more than thirty (30) calendar days after the incident, or after the date on

which management became aware of an incident, or reasonably should have become

aware, which constitutes cause for discipline.  

The foregoing thirty (30) day time frame shall not apply when mutually

waived by the parties or when the incident involves a possible felony or work-

related misdemeanor crime.

4

Blue Collar

In the case of vehicle accidents, the above stated thirty (30) day period

will  begin  on  the  date  the  affected  Division  or  Office  is  notified  of  the

Accident Review Board's determination.  If management receives new information

or the nature of the incident requires a lengthy investigation, management must

so advise the employee and the union of the need to extend the thirty (30) day

period and the length of the needed extension, in which case the thirty (30) day

period shall be extended.  

Section 4.  The parties agree that the Office of Labor Relations shall be

available to unit employees who allege in writing that harassment, coercion, or

improper punitive action by the County exists; which Office shall investigate

such allegations and take whatever corrective action if necessary.  Employees

filing  under  this  section  shall  not  be  entitled  to  simultaneously  file  a

grievance through the process in Article 15. Said employees shall have the right

to file a grievance only after the completion of the investigation or after the

County has reviewed the status of the investigation with the affected employee,

whichever comes first.  Not withstanding the aforestated, employees shall have

the  right  to  file  grievances  any  time  after  45  calendar  days  has  elapsed,

commencing from the time the original complaint was filed.

Section 5.  The parties agree that the Office of Equal Opportunity shall

be  available  to  unit  employees  who  allege  in  writing  that  they  have  been

discriminated against by reason of race, creed, color, national origin, sex,

sexual  orientation,  age,  or  disability,  which  Office  shall  investigate  such

allegations and take whatever corrective action if necessary.  Employees filing

under  this  section  shall  not  be  entitled  to  simultaneously  file  a  grievance

through the process in Article 15. Said employees shall have the right to file

a grievance only after the completion of the investigation or after the County

has  reviewed  the  status  of  the  investigation  with  the  affected  employee,

4a

Blue Collar

whichever comes first.  Not withstanding the aforestated, employees shall have

the  right  to  file  grievances  any  time  after  45  calendar  days  has  elapsed,

commencing from the time the original complaint was filed.

Section 6.  Counseling sessions related to potential disciplinary action

and/or written disciplinary action shall be presented to employees in a private

manner so as to avoid embarrassment before members of the public.

Section 7.  Should an employee or employees request their job steward or

their chief job steward on any disciplinary action and the County fails to permit

such representation, it will constitute that disciplinary action to become null

and void.

Section 8.  In areas where employee parking is available on County owned

or leased property, parking for unit employees shall be available on the same

basis as it is for all other County Commission employees.  If any other County

Commission  employees  are  directly  reimbursed  for  parking  costs,  then  unit

employees at the same job site shall be eligible for reimbursement also.  It is

also understood that the County is not obligated to furnish or continue parking

for its employees.

4b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 5 Back to Table of Contents

WAGES AND COMPENSATION

Section 1.

 

A.

Fiscal Year 1999/2000 

1.

Effective October 1, 1999, all pay range minimum and maximum

rates of pay will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as reflected in Appendix

“A1."

2.

Effective October 3, 1999, all eligible employees whose base

hourly rate is below the maximum of their pay range (excluding any certification

differential  pay)  as  of  October  2,  1999,  shall  have  their  base  hourly  rate

adjusted upward up to five percent (5%), not to exceed the new maximum rate of

their pay range, or to the new minimum of the pay range, whichever is greater.

Those employees below the maximum of the pay range and limited to an increase of

less than five percent (5%) to their base hourly rate due to the maximum of the

pay range, shall receive a one-time cash gross lump sum amount equal to the

difference between five percent (5%) and the percentage increase received (such

gross lump sum payments shall be rounded to the nearest dollar).  For example,

in the case of an employee who is three percent (3%) below the new maximum of

their pay range, the five percent (5%) increase would be implemented as follows:

the employee would receive a three percent (3%) increase to their base hourly

rate not to exceed the new maximum of the pay range and the remaining two percent

(2%)  would  be  in  the  form  of  a  one  (1)  time  gross  lump  sum  payment.  Those

employees receiving a full five percent (5%) increase to their base hourly rate

will not also be eligible for a lump sum payment. 

3.

Those  employees  whose  base  hourly  rate  is  at  or  above  the

maximum rate of their pay range(excluding any certification differential pay) as

5

Blue Collar

of  October  2,  1999,  will  not  be  eligible    for  a  base  hourly  adjustment  as

provided in Section A.2 above.  Rather such employees will receive a one-time

cash gross lump sum amount equal to five percent (5%) of the employee’s base

hourly rate.  Overtime will be calculated on the employee’s base hourly rate

whether at or above the maximum of the new pay range, in accordance with the

applicable provisions of Article 6, Hours of Work. 

B.

Fiscal Year 2000/2001

1.

Effective October 1, 2000 all pay range minimum and maximum

rates of pay will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as reflected in Appendix

“A2."

2.

Effective October 1, 2000, all eligible employees whose base

hourly rate is below the maximum of their pay range (excluding any certification

differential  pay)  as  of  October  1,  2000,  shall  have  their  base  hourly  rate

adjusted upward up to five percent (5%) not to exceed the new maximum rate of

their pay range, or to the new minimum of their pay range, whichever is greater.

Those employees below the maximum of the pay range and limited to an increase of

less than five percent (5%) to their base hourly rate due to the maximum of the

of the pay range, shall receive a one-time cash gross lump sum amount equal to

the difference between five percent (5%) and the percentage increase received

(such gross lump sum payments shall be rounded to the nearest dollar).  For

example, in the case of an employee who is three percent (3%) below the new

maximum of their pay range, the five percent (5%) increase would be implemented

as follows: the employee would receive a three percent (3%) increase to their

base hourly rate not to exceed the new maximum of the pay range and the remaining

two percent (2%) would be in the form of a one (1) time gross lump sum payment.

Those employees receiving a full five percent (5%) increase to their base hourly

rate will not be eligible for a lump sum payment. 

5a

Blue Collar

3.

Those  employees  whose  base  hourly  rate  is  at  or  above  the

maximum rate of their pay range(excluding any certification differential pay) as

of  October  1,  2000,  will  not  be  eligible    for  a  base  hourly  adjustment  as

provided in Section B.2 above.  Rather such employees will receive a one-time

cash gross lump sum amount equal to five percent (5%) of the employee’s base

hourly  rate.  Overtime  will  be  calculated  on  the  employee’s  base  hourly  rate

whether at or above the maximum of the new pay range, in accordance with the

applicable provisions of Article 6, Hours of Work. 

C.

Fiscal Year 2001/2002

1.

Effective October 1, 2001 all pay range minimum and maximum

rates of pay will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as reflected in Appendix

“A3."

2.

Effective October 14, 2001, all eligible employees whose base

hourly rate is below the maximum of their pay range (excluding any certification

differential  pay)  as  of  October  13,  2001,  shall  have  their  base  hourly  rate

adjusted upward up to five percent (5%) not to exceed the new maximum rate of

their pay range, or to the new minimum of their pay range, whichever is greater.

Those employees below the maximum of the pay range and limited to an increase of

less than five percent (5%) to their base hourly rate due to the maximum of the

of the pay range, shall receive a one-time cash gross lump sum amount equal to

the difference between five percent (5%) and the percentage increase received

(such gross lump sum payments shall be rounded to the nearest dollar).  For

example, in the case of an employee who is three percent (3%) below the new

maximum of their pay range, the five percent (5%) increase would be implemented

as follows: the employee would receive a three percent (3%) increase to their

base hourly rate not to exceed the new maximum of the pay range and the remaining

two percent (2%) would be in the form of a one (1) time gross lump sum payment.

5b

Blue Collar

Those employees receiving a full five percent (5%) increase to their base hourly

rate will not be eligible for a lump sum payment. 

3.

Those  employees  whose  base  hourly  rate  is  at  or  above  the

maximum rate of their pay range(excluding any certification differential pay) as

of  October  13,  2001,  will  not  be  eligible    for  a  base  hourly  adjustment  as

provided in Section C.2 above.  Rather such employees will receive a one-time

cash gross lump sum amount equal to five percent (5%) of the employee’s base

hourly rate.  Overtime will be calculated on the employee’s base hourly rate

whether at or above the maximum of the new pay range, in accordance with the

applicable provisions of Article 6, Hours of Work. 

D.  An employee not employed in a bargaining unit position on the above

stated October effective dates shall not receive the pay increase for that fiscal

year.  The employee shall be eligible for an increase in the subsequent fiscal

year as provided for in Section  1 (A, B, or C), except if the employee returns

to  the  previously  held  bargaining  unit  position  (i.e.,  did  not  complete

promotional probationary period) and who missed an annual increase. The above

increases will be based on two thousand eighty (2,080) hours annually.

Section 2.

A.

When an employee is authorized and performs the duties of any higher

rated position for any period of time over forty (40) consecutive hours, that

employee  shall  receive  the  compensation  that  employee  would  receive  had  the

employee been permanently or temporarily promoted to the position for all hours

beyond the initial forty (40).  To be eligible for the higher rate of pay, the

employee must be qualified and be replacing an absent employee or be assigned to

fill a higher rated position in which a vacancy exists.

B.

It is understood and agreed upon that should the County temporarily

assign an employee to perform duties in a lower classification, the employee

5c

Blue Collar

shall be compensated at the employee’s normal rate of pay.

Section 3.  The County agrees to pay Plant Operator II's, Class Code

07332, who provide documentation of an advanced certificate, a five percent (5%)

pay differential for each certificate designated as "B" and/or "A".  In no event

will  an  Operator  receive  more  than  a  total  of  a  ten  percent  (10%)  pay

differential.  Any cost involved in acquiring any certificate by an employee

shall not be paid by the County.  The intent of this article is not to doubly

compensate an employee with a double "B" or a double "A" certificate.

Section 4.

A.

The employees in the following job classifications may be eligible

for certification differential pay outlined in this section:

1)
2)
3)
4)
5)
6)
7)
8)
9)

Automotive Mechanic III
Automotive Mechanic II
Automotive Mechanic I
Fleet Service Attendant
Fleet Service Supervisor
Automotive Electrical Technician I
Automotive Electrical Technician II
Automotive Electrical Technician III
Automotive Body Repair Specialist

 

B.

Eligible employees who provide documentation of successful completion

of an Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Certification Test sponsored by the

National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence or the National Association

of Emergency Vehicle Technicians (NAEVT), will receive an annual two hundred

($200)  dollar  pay  differential  per  current  (ASE)  certification  or  NAEVT

certification  to  be  reflected  in  their  annual  hourly  rate  pro-rated  for  the

remainder of the fiscal year.  Such increase will be effective upon receipt and

confirmation  of  documentation  of  certification  by  the  appropriate  Division

Director or designee.

C.

Eligibility for certification differential pay shall be based upon

the job relatedness of the specific certification to the individual employee's

5d

Blue Collar

current job assignments as determined by the Division Director.  The number of

ASE certifications for which an employee may receive certification differential

pay will be limited to a total of twenty four (24) from the following ASE and

NAEVT areas of competence:

 1.
 2.
 3.
 4.
 5.
 6.
 7.
 8.
 9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

Engine Performance
Heating and Air Conditioning
Electrical Systems
Brakes
Suspension and Steering
Manual Drive train and Axle
Automatic Transmission/Transaxle
Engine Repair
Gasoline Engines (Heavy Duty Trucks)
Diesel Engines (Heavy Duty Trucks)
Drive train (Heavy Duty Trucks)
Brakes (Heavy Duty Trucks)
Suspension and Steering (Heavy Duty Trucks)
Electrical Systems (Heavy Duty Trucks)
Painting and Refinishing
Heating and Air Conditioning (Heavy Duty Trucks)
Preventive Maintenance (Heavy Duty Trucks)
Nonstructural Analysis and Damage Repair
Structural Analysis and Repairs
Fire Apparatus Electrical Systems (EVT)
Fire Apparatus and Design Performance (EVT)
Ambulance Electrical Systems (EVT)
Ambulance Design and Performance (EVT)
Fire Pumps and Accessories (EVT)

D.

Should an employee fail to recertify, and provide documentation of

recertification, certification differential pay shall automatically cease.

Section 5.

Effective April 1, 1990, employees in the job classification of Building

Code Inspector (class code #05422) shall be eligible to receive assignment pay

in an amount equivalent to an additional five percent (5%) above base salary.

In order to be eligible to receive this pay, the following conditions must be

met:

1.

Employee must be qualified to perform Plan Review and hold a valid

Plans Examiner card issued by the Board of Rules and Appeals.

2.

This assignment will be offered to qualified employees selected by

5e

Blue Collar

the Director.

3.

(a)

These responsibilities may be offered on a trial basis not to

exceed three (3) months.  During this time, the employee will

be trained in Plan Review duties and responsibilities.

    

(b)

When the employee is qualified in the opinion of the Director

or their designee, and the employee agrees to accept, and is

assigned  in  writing,  the  new  duties  and  responsibility  the

employee will be issued a Plan Examiner's card from the Board

of Rules and Appeals and will receive the assignment pay.

(c)

No  Code  Inspector,  who  is  NOT  being  trained  for  the  above

assignment or who does not have a valid Plan Examiner card,

will be ordered or instructed to perform Plan Review.

4.

The number of employees assigned to perform plan review shall be at

the discretion of the Director or their designee.

5.

It is understood that assignment pay is not a vested right of the

employee.  Removal of assignment pay due to lack of work or organizational change

will be governed by seniority.  Removal of assignment pay for any other reason

will be within the discretion of the Director.

6.

Should a Code Inspector be removed from inspecting responsibilities,

and be temporarily assigned to perform the full duties of a Plans Examiner, the

employee will continue to be assigned their vehicle.  When the employee becomes

eligible to receive out of classification pay as described in Section 2-A of this

Article, the employee will lose the assignment pay described herein.

7.

The parties understand that if the County restructures the Plans

Examiner and Building Inspector classification series, the provisions of this

agreement  shall  be  superseded  if  that  restructuring  accomplishes  the  same

objectives as this agreement.

5f

Blue Collar

Section 6.

1.

On or before December 31, 1999, the County shall implement a five

percent (5%) assignment pay for employees in the following job classifications

when regularly and permanently assigned to work in the Waste Water Treatment

facility (Copans and Powerline):

Electrician II
Electronics Technician I & II
Equipment Operator II & III
Maintenance Worker II
Plant Operator I & II
Utilities Mechanic I & II
Welder

2.

The  parties  understand  that  this  provision  does  not  apply  to

employees who may periodically or infrequently work at the Waste Water Treatment

Plant.    Should  an  employee  receiving  this  assignment  pay,  who  is  no  longer

assigned to permanently work at the Waste Water Treatment Plant, regardless of

the cause, will lose the assignment pay described herein.

Section 7.

On or before December 31, 1999, the County agrees to pay employees in the

below  stated  job  classifications,  who  provide  documentation  of  an  advanced

certificate  specific  to  the  employees  job  duties,  a  five  percent  (5%)  pay

differential  for  a  certificate  designated  as  a  “Mechanical  Journey

Level/Certificate of Competency,” or “State Licence” for security guards .  In

no event will an employee receive more than a total of five percent (5%) pay

differential.  Any cost involved in acquiring any certificate by an employee

shall not be paid by the County.  The intent of this article is not to doubly

compensate an employee with a double certificate.

1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

Carpenter I
Carpenter II
Electrician I
Electrician II
Plumber I

5g

Blue Collar

6)
7)
8)
9)
10)
11)

Plumber II
Refrigeration Mechanic I
Refrigeration Mechanic II
Security Guard I
Security Guard II
Welder

Section 8. Labor Management Committee

Effective no later than December 31, 1999, the Federation and the County

agree to create a Labor Management Committee on incentives.  The Labor Management

Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives from the Union and three (3)

from the County.  The purpose of this Committee will be to identify job related

incentives that will compensate employees for increased job related performance.

The Committee will reduce their recommendations to writing, and in turn, will be

submitted to the County Administrator and the Federation President for approval.

Once  approved  by  the  County  Administrator  and  the  Federation  President,  the

recommendations  shall  be  implemented  after  the  bargaining  unit  members  have

accepted and ratified the recommendations, and if necessary, acceptance by the

County Commission.

Section 9. Service Recognition Program

1.

For FY 1999/2000, eligible employees who have reached at least the

ten (10) year County service bench mark as outlined in Section 5 below, as of

October 1, 1999, will receive 50% of the amount for each of the bench marks

currently and previously reached.  For example, an eighteen (18) year employee

would receive 50% of the gross lump sum amounts for the ten (10) year bench mark

and the fifteen (15) year bench mark. That is, the employee would receive half

of $475 for ten (10) years and $775 for the fifteen (15) years totaling $625.

The employee will receive this one time gross lump sum payment in the first full

pay period in December 1999. 

2.

For  FY  2000/2001,  eligible  employees  who  have  reached  a  County

5h

Blue Collar

service bench mark as outlined in Section 5 below, as of October 1, 2000, will

receive  75%  of  the  amount  for  only  that  bench  mark  reached  that  year.  For

example, a twenty (20) year employee would receive 75% of the gross lump sum

amount for reaching the twenty (20) year bench mark. That is, the employee would

receive 75% of $1,000 totaling $750. On the other hand, a nineteen (19) year

employee  would  not  be  eligible  for  this  increase,  but  may  be  eligible  the

following year for reaching the twenty (20) year County service bench mark. The

employee will receive this one time gross lump sum payment in the first full pay

period in December 2000. 

3.

For  FY  2001/2002,  eligible  employees  who  have  reached  a  County

service bench mark as outlined in Section 5 below, as of October 1, 2001, will

receive 100% of the amount for only that bench mark reached that year.  The

employee will receive this one time gross lump sum payment in the first full pay

period in December 2001. 

4.

A County service bench mark is understood to mean an employee’s most

recent date of continuous, full-time service or continuous pro-rated part-time

service, including any period of temporary or limited-term employment.

5.

Years of Service

10 years

15 years

20 years

25 years

Amount

$475

$775

$1,000

$1,300

6.

The  Service  Recognition  Program  will  end  on  September  30,  2002,

unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties. 

5i

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 6 Back to Table of Contents

HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME

Section 1.  The work week for County employees shall not exceed forty (40)

hours in a seven (7) day period beginning each Sunday at 12:01 A.M. through the

following Saturday at 12:00 P.M., exclusive of scheduled unpaid lunch breaks; the

County agrees to notify the Union in writing of proposed change(s) in the number

of work week hours for full time employees at least five (5) weeks prior to the

proposed effective date of such change(s).  The Union may request within twenty-

one (21) working days of receipt of such notice, to meet and discuss with the

County prior to the implementation of the change(s).  The County Administrator,

or the County Administrator’s designee will review any proposed change(s) and the

input of both the Union and the County regarding the proposed change(s).  After

such review, the County Administrator or the County Administrator’s designee will

approve or disapprove the proposed change(s).  Permanent shift assignments shall

not be changed except after two (2) weeks notice and where feasible three (3)

weeks notice, to the affected employee except in emergency situations.  Where

operationally  feasible,  the  County  shall  make  every  effort  to  schedule

consecutive days off and limit shift rotations within the pay period.

Section 2.  All hours authorized and worked in excess of forty (40) hours

in a seven (7) days work period shall be compensated at one and one-half (1½)

times the employee's straight time base hourly rate of pay.  There shall be no

compensatory time in lieu of overtime pay.  The following hours shall be computed

as hours worked for the sole purpose of computing eligibility for the overtime

rate:

A.

B.

C.

Hours off for workers' compensation;

Sick leave bonus hours;

Standby duty pay as defined in Article 6, Section 10B, shall only be
computed as time worked for determining overtime eligibility, the

6

Blue Collar

intent being to help toward making the work week whole, in either of
two cases:

1. Where an employee has utilized authorized sick leave during
the scheduled work week; or

2.  Where an employee receives a time adjustment of up to 2.5
hours per week (for example, the adjustment between the normal
work week of 37.5 hours to 40 hours), however, not more than
2.5  hours  of  Standby  Duty  per  week  shall  cause  the  time
adjustment to be considered hours worked.

Holiday pay, as defined in Article 8, Section 2, shall be computed
when  the  designated  holiday  is  an  employee's  normally  scheduled
workday and the employee is given the day off in observance of the
holiday;

Annual  leave  hours  shall  be  computed  only  when  such  leave  is
prescheduled  and  approved  according  to  the  vacation  schedule
provisions of Article 7, Section 3A; or when annual leave hours are
requested  and  approved  prior  to  the  employee's  knowledge  that
overtime  has  been  scheduled  during  the  week  the  annual  leave  is
requested/approved.

Bereavement Leave Hours;

Jury Duty Leave hours paid;

Emergency Working Condition Hours as described in Section 11 of this
Article.

D.

E.

F.

G.

H.

All other hours paid but not worked shall not be computed as hours worked.

Section 3.  Each full-time employee working eight (8) hours per day but

less than ten (10) hours shall be entitled to two (2) paid fifteen (15) minute

breaks, one in the first half and one in the last half of the shift; employees

regularly scheduled to work shifts of ten (10) hours or more shall be entitled

to two (2) paid twenty (20) minute breaks, one in the first half of the shift and

one in the last half.

Section 4.  The starting and ending time for a work location shall be

established by the appropriate supervisor in order to meet the varying needs of

that work location.

Section 5.  In addition to the straight time base hourly rate, full-time

employees will be paid a shift differential of 50¢ per hour for hours actually

6a

Blue Collar

worked on the third shift and  85¢ per hour for hours worked on the first shift.

Effective no later than December 31, 1999, full-time employees will be paid a

shift differential of 70¢ per hour for hours actually worked on the third shift

and $1.10 per hour for actually worked on the first shift.  Permanent part-time

employees  will  receive  the  shift  differential  if  they  work  a  full  eight  (8)

hours,  or  ten  (10)  hours  if  applicable,  on  the  third  or  first  shift.    For

purposes of this article, shifts shall be defined as:

Second shift:

All work shifts which begin between 4:00 a.m. and

11:59 a.m.

Third shift:

All  work  shifts  which  begin  between  12:00  noon

and 7:59 p.m.

First shift:

All work shifts which begin between 8:00 p.m. and

3:59 a.m.

For  divisional  personnel  operating  on  shift  schedules,  those  employees

completing their scheduled shift and authorized to continue working into the next

consecutively scheduled shift, shall be paid the shift differential for those

hours worked in that additional consecutive shift.

Section 6.

A.  Assignment of Prescheduled Overtime:  The County agrees to prepare a

seniority list for each job site within a division except, the Water Supply, and

Waste  Water  Management  Divisions  shall  prepare  a  seniority  list  for  each

district.    The  purpose  of  such  list  is  to  coordinate  and  distribute  equally

prescheduled  overtime.    In  the  event  that  an  employee  is  needed  to  work

prescheduled overtime, the most senior qualified employee on the work site who

is in the needed classification and who normally performs work of the type and

character of the needed overtime work will be given the opportunity to accept or

reject the prescheduled overtime.  That employee will thereafter be placed at the

6b

Blue Collar

bottom of the list and the employee shall not be offered prescheduled overtime

until all qualified employees at the work site within the same classification who

normally  perform  the  required  duties  have  been  asked  to  work  prescheduled

overtime.    In  the  event  that  all  qualified  employees  in  the  affected

classification who normally perform work of the type and character of the needed

overtime work decline to work prescheduled overtime, the least senior qualified

employee in the classification shall be required to perform the overtime work.

However, the least senior qualified employee may be excused from being required

to perform prescheduled overtime if the employee presents an excuse acceptable

to the employee's immediate supervisor.  In such event, the above process shall

apply to the next least senior qualified employee who shall be required to work

the overtime.

The affected employee(s) will be advised of prescheduled overtime as soon

as practicable to allow the employee to make arrangements (i.e. family, etc.).

Prescheduled overtime which is requested half way, or more, into the regularly

scheduled shift for overtime needed the same day shall not cause the employee to

lose their position on the overtime list whether or not the overtime is accepted.

B.

Assignment of Emergency Overtime:  If the County needs an employee

to work unscheduled overtime of an emergency nature, the County will nevertheless

attempt to follow the procedure outlined in Section 6 "A" above where, at the

sole discretion of the County, sufficient time exists to allow compliance with

the procedure.  However, said procedure shall not apply to preclude the County

from "holding over" employees to perform needed emergency overtime; employees

held over shall retain their position on the prescheduled overtime seniority

list.

Section 7.  When an employee is required to report to a County physician

for a medical examination as a condition of employment, continued employment, or

6c

Blue Collar

promotional employment, such examination will take place during the employee's

normal scheduled work week.  If the examination cannot be scheduled during the

employee's  normal  scheduled  work  week,  the  employee  shall  be  compensated  at

straight time base rate for time required to undergo the medical examination or

at the overtime rate, if the employee has been authorized and has worked in

excess of forty (40) hours in a seven (7) day work period.

Section 8.  When an employee is scheduled to report into work on a day on

which the employee is normally off duty and is sent home for lack of work, the

employee shall be entitled to five (5) hours pay at straight time base rate as

"show up" time, or actual time worked if more than five (5) hours.

Section 9.  Emergency Call Out:

A.  Call out pay is provided to compensate off duty employees required to

return to work on an unscheduled basis after completing a regularly assigned

shift.  Such employees shall be paid for the actual time worked with a minimum

guarantee  of  three  (3)  hours  pay.    Should  an  employee  receive  a  further

assignment(s) while on Emergency Call Out, and in the course of completing such

additional assignment(s) works beyond three (3) hours in total, the employee

shall  be  paid  for  the  actual  time  worked  (at  the  overtime  rate  of  pay,  if

applicable).  In this context only, actual time worked starts at the time of

notice and ends when the employee would reasonably be expected to return home.

B.    Any  employee  required  to  report  to  work  within  two  (2)  hours  of

regularly  scheduled  starting  time  shall  be  ineligible  for  call  out  pay  but

eligible for compensation for actual hours worked (at the overtime rate of pay,

if applicable).

C.  Any employee who is on duty and is instructed and assigned to return

to work shall be ineligible for call out pay but eligible for compensation for

the actual hours worked (at the overtime rate of pay, if applicable).

6d

Blue Collar

D.  Any employee required to continue working after completion of their

regular scheduled shift shall be ineligible for call out pay but eligible for

compensation  for  the  actual  hours  worked  (at  the  overtime  rate  of  pay,  if

applicable).

Section 10.  Standby:

A.  In order to provide coverage for services during off-duty hours, it may

be necessary to assign and schedule employees to standby duty.  A standby duty

assignment authorized by a supervisor requires an employee to be available for

work due to an urgent situation on the employee's off-duty time which may include

nights, weekends, or holidays.  Employees shall be required to be on standby duty

when assigned unless excused by supervision.

B.  Employees assigned to standby duty by their supervisor are guaranteed

two (2) hours standby duty pay at their straight time base rate for each regular

work day of standby duty assigned and scheduled; and three (3) hours pay at their

straight time base rate for regular days off, with day defined as a 24 hour time

period.  Compensated hours of standby referred to in this paragraph shall count

as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime pay as defined in Article

6, Section 2.

C.  Employees while on standby duty when called to work will, in addition

to the standby duty pay provided in Paragraph B above, be paid as follows:  For

the initial call for each regular work day or regular day off of standby duty,

the employee will be paid for actual time worked with a minimum guarantee of two

(2) hours pay.  For all other calls during standby duty, the employee will be

paid for actual time worked.  For pay purposes, actual time worked starts at the

time of notice, and ends when the employee would reasonably be expected to return

to home.  The employee is expected to respond to the call in a reasonable amount

of time following notice.  In the event any employee who is on standby duty fails

6e

Blue Collar

to respond to a call to work the employee will forfeit the standby duty pay and

may be subject to possible disciplinary measures.

D.  Employees will not be assigned and scheduled to standby duty if excused

in advance by a supervisor outside the bargaining unit.  However, in the event

the supervisor cannot schedule the required number of employees for standby duty,

then any previously excused employees will be required to serve the necessary

standby duty.

E.  Where operationally feasible, standby duty assignments will be made on

a weekly basis.  Feasibility shall be determined by management.

Section 11.  Emergency Working Conditions:  Due to conditions beyond the

control of the Employer, including but not limited to things such as hurricanes,

windstorms and tornados, if the County Administrator declares an emergency and

directs the County to begin Emergency Operations, bargaining unit members shall

be compensated as described below:

A.  Any employee regularly scheduled to work during the declared emergency

who is ordered by the Employer's management not to report or to go home prior to

the completion of their shift will suffer no loss of pay.  Any employee who is

on pre-approved sick leave, annual leave, or personal day before the declared

emergency will suffer no loss of pay and the applicable leave bank shall not be

deducted.  Such hours paid but not worked will not count as hours worked for

computing premium (time and one-half) overtime eligibility.

B.  Any employee who is ordered, or assigned as a result of volunteering,

by  the  Employer's  management  to  work  during  the  declared  emergency  shall  be

compensated at double their straight time base hourly rate for all hours actually

worked.  This compensation is in lieu of any other compensation.

Section 12.  Involuntary Transfers

A.

Between Divisions - In those cases where it is necessary to transfer

6f

Blue Collar

an  employee  involuntarily  from  one  Division  to  another  Division  due  to

organizational restructuring, the County will select the least senior qualified

employee in the classification.

B.

Within  a  Division  -      In  those  cases  where  it  is  necessary  to

transfer an employee involuntarily from one location to another location within

a  Division  which  is  significantly  geographically  separated,  the  County  will

consider  volunteers.    If  there  are  no  volunteers,  the  County  will  consider

significant employee hardships.  If an involuntary transfer becomes necessary,

the County will not be arbitrary or capricious and will base the involuntary

transfer on reasonable, articulated operational needs.

7g

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 7 Back to Table of Contents

ANNUAL LEAVE

Section 1.  Full-time and regular part-time employees who are members of

the  bargaining  unit  are  eligible  to  take  accrued  annual  leave  after  the

probationary  period  has  been  served.    Annual  leave  shall  be  accrued  with

reference  to  completed  months  of  continuous  service  and  is  earned  as  of  an

employee's most recent date of employment in the County.  Any approved leave of

absence without pay will not be included in the computation or accrual of annual

leave.

Section 2.  The following vacation accrual rate shall be observed by the

parties for full-time employees:

Completed Months of Continuous Service

Less than 60 months
At least 60 months but less than 180 months
180 months and more

Hourly Accrual Rate

   Per Bi-Weekly Pay Period

  3.08
  4.62
  6.15

Regular part-time employees shall receive a pro rata vacation accrual based on

the above schedule.

Section 3. 

A.  For purposes of scheduling annual leave, employees shall submit a first

and second preference vacation schedule to the Division Director on or before

March 1st annually with the final adjustments submitted by March 15th annually.

Except for emergency situations, the employee with the greatest unit seniority

shall be granted vacation preference subject to the operational needs of the

Division.  Employees will be notified of their approved vacation schedule by

April 15.

B.  Any leave request submitted at other times of the year will be approved

or denied with reference to the operational needs of the Department/Division and

8

Blue Collar

the existing vacation schedule.  Management shall return the applicable leave

slip to the employee advising the granting or denial of the leave request within

seven (7) working days, from management’s receipt of such leave request. 

Section 4.  If a holiday occurs during a period of time when a member of

the bargaining unit is on approved annual leave, that employee shall receive

holiday pay for such holiday in lieu of annual leave pay.

Section 5.  The maximum of unused annual leave that may be carried over

from one calendar year to the next shall not exceed a total of two hundred and

eighty (280) accrued annual leave hours.  The date for computation of excess

leave for each year shall be December 31.  Leave in excess of two hundred and

eighty (280) accrued hours shall be forfeited.

Section 6.  Accrued annual leave may be used to cover a continuing absence

due to illness when all accrued sick leave has been exhausted.

Section 7.  Any permanent employee in the bargaining unit who is separated

from service with the County shall be compensated for all unused accrued annual

leave at the employee's base rate of pay at the time of separation.

Section 8.  Accrued annual leave may be used in half-hour (½) increments.

7a

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 8 Back to Table of Contents

HOLIDAYS

Section 1.  The following days will be observed on the day designated by

the County as a paid holiday:

New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Veterans' Day
Thanksgiving Day
Friday after Thanksgiving
Christmas Day
Two (2) personal days- beginning in January, 1996 (at
employees request with appropriate notice).

Section 2.  Holiday Pay shall be computed on the employee's straight time

base rate of pay and such holiday pay shall be based on one-fifth (1/5) of the

normal scheduled work week.

All full-time employees shall receive two (2) personal days of eight (8)

or ten (10) hours each. Regular part-time 20+ hour employees shall receive two

(2) personal days of four (4) hours each.

Section 3.

A.  An employee who fails to work their scheduled work day before or after

the  holiday  forfeits  the  holiday  pay  for  that  holiday  unless  the  employee

provides  a  physician's  certificate  as  to  their  physical  condition  being

incapacitative on the actual day missed.  This requirement may be waived at the

sole discretion of the County.

B.  An employee who fails to work their scheduled work day on the holiday

forfeits  the  holiday  pay  for  that  holiday  unless  the  employee  provides  a

physician's certificate as to their physical condition being incapacitative on

the  actual  day  missed,  however,  shall  an  employee  provide  a  physician's

8

Blue Collar

certificate, the employee shall receive holiday pay plus sick leave pay for that

day.  An employee who does not provide a physician's certificate and is otherwise

eligible to use sick leave, will be compensated for the sick leave only.

Section 4.

A.  Employees who work on a designated holiday shall receive one and one-

half (1½) their base rate of pay for actual hours worked on such holiday plus the

holiday pay as defined in Section 2 above.

B.  Employees who are given the day off in observance of the holiday shall

receive holiday pay as defined in Section 2 above.

C.  If the observed holiday falls on the employee's regular schedule day

off, the employee will be given holiday pay as defined in Section 2 above in

addition to the normal scheduled work week at straight time rate of pay; or if

the employer gives the employee another day off with pay, the day off will be in

lieu of the holiday pay as defined in Section 2 above and shall be taken within

sixty (60) days.

D.  If the employer gives an employee who works the designated holiday

another day off, the day off will be in lieu of the holiday pay as defined in

Section 2 above and shall be taken within sixty (60) days.  Section 4A would

apply to actual hours worked on the designated holiday.

Section 5.  In the event the Board of County Commissioners for Broward

County, Florida designates a paid holiday, other than those listed in Section 1,

for employees of other bargaining units, the parties agree that the employees

covered by this Agreement will likewise enjoy said holidays, on the same terms

and conditions set forth in this article.

Section 6.  An employee or employees who are called into work on a County

designated holiday, shall be guaranteed a minimum of three (3) hours pay at one

and one-half times the hourly rate of pay, regardless of the number of hours

8a

Blue Collar

worked during the work week.  This shall not apply to standby employees who are

scheduled to work standby for the week or weekend.

9b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 9 Back to Table of Contents

BENEFITS

Section 1.  The County agrees to continue in effect the insurance programs

for unit employees currently in effect on the same terms and conditions available

to other County employees. Employees shall receive a “Flex Dollar” amount of

$3,610  annually per calendar year (paid bi-weekly) for the duration of this

Agreement.

 The Federation reserves the right to submit recommendations to the County's

Division of Human Resources in reference to insurance benefit plans for unit

employees.

Section 2.    The County will make available three (3) additional payroll

deductions for possible utilization by this bargaining unit under the same terms

and conditions as provided in Article 17 of this Agreement.

Section 3.

A.  Bargaining unit members who are disabled because of an injury arising

out of, and in the course of their employment with the County, will receive

supplemental payments from the County, which when added to Workers' Compensation

payments would equal their full pay for a specified period of time without charge

against  annual  or  sick  leave.    The  disability  must  be  of  an  immediate

incapacitating nature, not one which occurred at some time in the past.  If an

injury  is  determined  by  the  County's  Safety  Committee  to  have  occurred  as  a

result of the employee's failure to comply with established safety rules and

procedures, or failure to use provided personal protective safety equipment, the

employee may be denied County supplemental payments.

B.    If  at  any  time  Workers'  Compensation  benefits  are  discontinued  or

suspended under the provisions of the Florida Workers' Compensation Act, Workers'

Compensation and any County supplemental payments made pursuant thereto shall be

10

Blue Collar

discontinued.

C.  In order for an employee on Workers' Compensation to remain eligible

for  County  supplemental  payments,  the  employee  must  contact  their  Division

Director at least once every work week while the employee is on leave in order

to  report  as  to  their  medical  condition  and  prognosis,  and  sooner  if  the

employee's medical condition and prognosis changes.

D.  If an employee is unable to perform their regularly assigned duties as

a result of an injury, but is still able to perform some type of restricted work,

the employee may be assigned other work or duties during the period of their

recuperation at the sole discretion of the County and subject to the operational

needs of the Department/Division and otherwise in accordance with the Americans

with  Disabilities  Act  (ADA).    Any  employee  physically  able  but  unwilling  to

accept such an assignment shall be denied supplemental payments from the County.

E.  The Director of Human Resources may order any employee on Workers'

Compensation to be examined by a physician who is selected and approved by the

Division of Risk Management.  If the employee refuses to be examined, then that

employee shall be immediately removed from such leave and shall be ineligible to

receive any supplemental payments from the County.

F.  While an employee is receiving Workers' Compensation, any authorized

County supplemental payments shall not exceed eight (8) work weeks for any one

injury or multiple injuries occurring in one (1) accident or mishap.  If an

employee is unable to return to work or perform their normal job duties at the

end of the eight (8) work week period, such employee will continue on Workers'

Compensation in accordance with Florida Statute, but shall not receive County

supplemental payments.

G.  A Department/Division head may petition the Division of Human Resources

to continue an employee on Workers' Compensation with supplemental payments for

9a

Blue Collar

an additional period of time not to exceed eight (8) work weeks, provided that

sufficient grounds are given by the Department/Division head and the extension

is approved by the County Administrator.  A management decision to award or deny

additional supplemental payments shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.

This  provision  shall  not  entitle  any  employee  as  a  matter  of  right  to  an

extension of Workers' Compensation leave.

H.  An employee who has exhausted their Workers' Compensation leave and is

placed on a leave of absence without pay shall be entitled to re-employment in

the first available position for which the employee is qualified and which is

similar in pay unless the pay requirement is waived by the returning employee.

This  provision  shall  only  grant  to  a  returning  employee  the  right  to  re-

employment with Broward County on a priority basis when a position is available

in County service.  This right will exist for one (1) year from the time the

employee goes on leave of absence without pay.

9b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 10 Back to Table of Contents

SICK LEAVE

Section 1.  Employees shall accrue sick leave at the rate of eight (8)

hours  per  month  if  full-time,  and  a  proportionate  amount  if  part-time,  to  a

maximum of 960 hours for purposes of payment as described in Section 3 of this

Article.  For all utilization purposes outlined in this Article, accrual of sick

leave shall be unlimited.

Section 2.  An employee shall be eligible after completion of the initial

probationary period, to earn eight (8) hours of time off with pay (bonus day) for

each six (6) month period in which no sick leave is used.  The six (6) month

period begins with the last instance of sick leave.  This bonus day is time off

with pay which must be taken in the next nine (9) month period.  The time taken

shall be at the option of the employee so long as the smooth operations of the

Division are not jeopardized.  The County shall notify the employee in writing

within three (3) weeks after the employee has earned a bonus day.  Failure to

notify within this time shall extend the time period for taking the bonus day to

nine (9) months from the date earned.

Section 3.  When employees resign or are laid off they will be paid twenty-

five (25%) of their accumulated sick leave as of the effective date of such

action  their  separation.    Employees  who  retire  under  the  Florida  Retirement

System will be paid fifty percent (50%) of their accumulated sick leave as of the

effective date of their retirement. 

Section  4.    Except  where  amended  in  this  contract,  the  rest  of  Civil

Service Regulation 14.229 shall apply to sick leave.

Section 5.  In order to qualify for sick leave pay, employees must notify

their job site of their illness as soon as practicable, but not later than one

10

Blue Collar

(1) hour after the start of their scheduled shift, except in cases of emergency

such notification shall not exceed two (2) hours after shift starts.

Section 6.  Employees covered by this Agreement may participate in the

County's  Sick  Leave  Donation  Program  subject  to  the  same  guidelines  and

eligibility requirements as non-represented employees.

Section 7.  Sick Leave Conversion:

Employees whose sick leave accrual balance exceeds 500 hours as of the end

of the last pay period in November of a given year are eligible to participate

in the Sick Leave Conversion plan.  Only those hours beyond 500 total hours of

accrued  sick  leave  are  eligible  for  conversion.    Accrued  sick  leave  hours

considered eligible for conversion may be converted to Annual Leave at a ratio

of two (2) sick leave hours to one (1) annual leave hour for accrued sick leave

hours up to 960 total hours or one (1) sick leave hour to (1) annual leave hour

for accrued sick leave hours beyond 960 total hours for a maximum of forty (40)

hours annual leave.   The converted hours shall be credited to the employee's

annual  leave  bank  in  January  of  the  following  calendar  year.    Employees

interested in converting sick leave subject to the conditions of this section

must follow the procedures as provided by the Division of Human Resources.

Usage of sick leave converted to annual leave is subject to the provisions

of Article 7 (Annual Leave) of this Agreement. 

10a

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 10B Back to Table of Contents

FAMILY ILLNESS LEAVE

Section 1.  Family Illness Leave may be granted to an eligible employee as

defined in Section 2 below in the case of actual sickness or disability of an

immediate family member.  Immediate family shall be defined as the employee's

spouse,  father,  mother,  son,  daughter,  stepson/daughter  if  domiciled  in  the

employee's household, and persons determined "in loco parentis" (in the place of

the parent) by the Human Resources Director.

Section  2.    Employees  who  have  successfully  completed  an  initial

probationary  period  and  who  are  otherwise  eligible  to  earn  and  use  sick  and

annual leave may be allowed to use up to a maximum of forty (40) hours of their

accrued sick leave in any one calendar year to care for an ill immediate family

member. 

Section 3.  Use of accrued sick leave for Family Illness is subject to the

Procedures of the County's Sick Leave Monitoring Policy governing the use of Sick

Leave and shall be treated as any other usage of an employee's sick leave for the

purposes of documentation and approval. 

Section 4.  Leave in excess of the forty (40) hours specified in Section

2 above may be granted in accordance with the provisions specified in Article 7,

Annual Leave.

Section 5.  Any improvements to the Family Illness Leave benefit granted

by the Board of County Commissioners for non-represented employees during the

term of this agreement shall also apply to employees covered by this agreement.

10b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 11 Back to Table of Contents

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

Section 1.  An employee who suffers the death of an immediate family member

shall  be  granted  bereavement  leave  of  three  (3)  working  days  to  attend  the

funeral in the state of Florida, and five (5) working days (a total of forty (40)

hours) to attend the funeral outside the state of Florida.  This shall be with

full  pay  and  shall  not  be  deducted  from  the  employee's  accrued  leave.    If

additional time is needed the employee may use annual leave.  For purposes of

Bereavement Leave, immediate family is defined as:  parents, sister, brother,

spouse, son, daughter, employee's grandparent(s), mother-in-law, father-in-law,

grandchildren,  stepchildren domiciled in the employee's household, and persons

determined "in loco parentis" (in the place of the parent) by the Human Resources

Director.

Section 2.  The employee shall provide their supervisor with proof of death

in the employee’s family if requested. 

Section 3.  The parties agree that in the event a death occurs pursuant to

the standards set forth in Section 1, above, for a family member outside the

state of Florida, an employee, upon request, shall be granted an additional two

(2) days' leave which shall be deducted from the employee's earned sick leave.

The  use  of  said  sick  leave  for  this  purpose  shall  not  affect  the  Bonus  Day

computation provided for in Article 10, Section 2.

11

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 12 Back to Table of Contents

SENIORITY 

Section 1.  Bargaining unit seniority is understood to mean an employee's

most recent date of continuous employment in a bargaining unit position so long

as the employee has been carried for payroll purposes as a permanent employee.

Bargaining unit seniority will continue to accrue during all types of County

approved leave except for leave of absence without pay or layoff, for more than

thirty (30) days, which shall cause this date to be adjusted for an equivalent

period of time.  Leave of absence without pay or layoff, for periods of less than

thirty  (30)  days  shall  not  cause  the  bargaining  unit  seniority  date  to  be

adjusted. 

Section 2.  Unit seniority will be used for the purpose of layoff and

recall as provided for in other sections of this article and where operationally

feasible, for scheduling vacation as provided in Article 7.

Section  3.    In  the  event  it  is  necessary  to  reduce  the  work  force,

including abolishment of a division, all layoffs shall be according to seniority.

An employee affected by a reduction in force shall have the right to displace an

employee  with  less  seniority  in  any  equal  or  lower  classification  in  the

employee’s Department provided the retained employee is technically qualified and

physically  capable  to  perform  the  necessary  duties  of  the  position  without

further training.

Section 4.  An employee who accepts a lower paid bargaining unit position

in lieu of layoff shall retain their rate of pay unless it exceeds the highest

rate for the new class in which case the employee shall be paid the top of the

lower classification rate.

Section 5.  All employees shall receive at least a two (2) weeks notice of

12

Blue Collar

layoff, or, in lieu of notice, two (2) weeks pay at the employee’s regular rate

of pay.  The Federation shall be furnished copies of all layoff notices at the

same time as the laid off employee receives notice.

Section 6.  Employees who have been laid off will have recall rights not

to exceed eighteen (18) months.  Names of affected employees will be placed, in

order of seniority, on a recall list for the job classification from which the

employee(s) were laid off.  When a vacancy occurs for which there is a recall

list, the Division of Human Resources will send a certified letter of notice to

the most senior employee at the last address the employee filed with the Division

of Human Resources with a courtesy copy to the Federation.  If the employee

refuses  to  return  to  work  in  the  classification  for  which  said  employee  is

recalled, or if there is no response within ten (10) working days after the

notice is sent, such employee's recall rights under the Agreement are lost.  Such

employee would still be eligible for County employment but not on a preferential

basis.

Section 7.  For the purposes of layoff and recall, a vacancy is deemed to

exist when the County is seeking to fill a full-time permanent budgeted position.

Section 8.  Laid off employees who are recalled to County service within

the eighteen (18) month recall period as provided for in Section 6 shall have the

right to "buy back" the amount of sick leave accrual held at the time of layoff

by reimbursing the County the sick leave pay out which was given at the time of

layoff.  If the employee elects not to buy back sick leave accrual, sick leave

will begin to accrue on the date the employee is returned to County service.  The

recalled employee shall also be credited with seniority earned prior to layoff.

However, the time spent on layoff, except for time spent on a layoff for less

than thirty (30) days, shall not be credited in the calculation of benefits.

Section 9.  If an employee is absent for five (5) consecutive workdays

12a

Blue Collar

without notifying the County of their absence, the employee shall be terminated

and it shall not be grievable.  If the employee is on approved annual leave, sick

leave, bereavement leave, compensatory time, or leave without pay, the first

sentence of Section 9 shall not apply.

Section 10.  In case of a layoff caused by subcontracting, the County shall

give priority in placing laid off employees in a vacant bargaining unit position

and  shall  also  use  its  best  efforts  to  place  affected  employees  in  vacant

positions throughout Broward County.

Section 11.   The provisions of this section apply to absences from the

unit which occur subsequent to Board approval of the agreement for FY 93/94.  An

employee covered by the collective bargaining agreement who leaves the bargaining

unit for reasons other than discharge, or resignation in lieu of discharge, shall

retain bargaining unit seniority accrued prior to vacating the position provided

the period of absences does not exceed 6 months. An employee who leaves the

bargaining unit and returns to a bargaining unit position within 6 months, shall

not accrue any bargaining unit seniority during the period of absence, and shall

be considered to have bargaining unit seniority equal to the seniority accrued

as of the date the employee vacated the position. An employee who returns to a

bargaining unit position more than 6 months after leaving the bargaining unit

shall not be credited with any prior bargaining unit seniority and must commence

a new seniority date.

12b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 13 Back to Table of Contents

PROMOTION POLICY

Section 1.  It shall be the policy of Broward County to encourage promotion

from  within,  whenever  feasible,  consistent  with  qualified  manpower  and

affirmative action goals.  A promotional system will be maintained encompassing

merit  principles  which  will  recognize  County  service  as  a  major  factor  in

promotions  along  with  qualifications  and  work  records.    Employees  who  are

interested in being promoted or changing divisions may file a "Job Interest Card"

with the Civil Service section for those specific classifications in which an

interest is expressed.  After an employee files a "Job Interest Card" with Human

Resources, Human Resources will notify the employee when the classification is

announced.  It shall be the objective of Civil Service to encourage promotion

from  within,  free  of  political  considerations,  nepotism  or  other  forms  of

favoritism or unlawful discrimination.  Promotional appointments shall not be

grievable except in cases where the party (s) can substantiate that one of the

above considerations resulted in such appointment.

The amount of salary increase granted upon promotion shall be consistent

with the provisions of the Broward County Civil Service Rules and Regulations,

as such provisions existed as of the effective date of this agreement.

Section  2.    There  shall  also  be  a  probationary  period  served  when  an

employee is promoted.  The term of this period shall be 135 calendar days.  If

an employee is removed during the probationary period following a promotion for

failure to perform satisfactorily the duties of the higher position, the employee

shall be returned to the position held prior to the promotion or to a similar

position.    Should  an  appropriate  vacancy  not  exist,  the  employee  shall  be

restored to the position held prior to the promotion and the provisions governing

reduction in force shall apply.  A probationary promotional appointment does not

13

Blue Collar

affect an employee's earned permanent status and rights in the County system

acquired in another position.  The promoted employee retains the right to bring

a grievance under any term or condition of employment specified in this Agreement

except that no grievance may be filed on the employee’s behalf relating to a

management  decision  to  return  the  employee  to  their  former  or  substantially

equivalent  position  during  the  first  135  calendar  days  following  promotion.

During the probationary period the said employee will be paid the appropriate

higher classification wage rate and will continue to receive said wage after

completing their probationary period.

Section 3.  To improve the quality of personal service rendered to the

public  and  to  aid  employees  in  equipping  themselves  for  advancement,  any

permanent, full-time employee may request Educational Leave for the purpose of

taking occupationally related courses or training.  The following procedures

shall apply:

A.

The immediate supervisor shall determine the feasibility of excusing

the employee from work by examining the work schedule and arranging

for  adequate  coverage  and/or  redistribution  of  work  assignments

during the employee's absence.

B.

The Division Director shall then determine whether the courses or

training  are  occupationally  related  and  whether  leave  shall  be

granted with full pay subject to review by the Director of Human

Resources if denied.

C.

Request for educational leave must have final approval in advance by

the  Director  of  Human  Resources  and  shall  not  exceed  a  total  of

twenty (20) working days or one hundred sixty (160) work hours in

any one (1) calendar year per employee, except as may be approved by

the County Administrator.

13a

Blue Collar

Section 4.  Employees covered by this Agreement may participate in the

County's Educational Reimbursement Program.  The eligibility requirements and the

amount,  type  and  condition  precedent  to  obtaining  reimbursement,  will  be

established by the County.

14b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 14 Back to Table of Contents

LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

Section 1.  At the sole discretion of the County, a department, division

or office director may grant a permanent employee a leave of absence without pay

for  a  period  not  to  exceed  three  (3)  months,  subject  to  operational  needs.

However, a leave may be approved by the Director of Human Resources in accordance

with the Family and Medical Leave Act for a period not to exceed four (4) months.

Leave of absence without pay exceeding the periods described above may be granted

with the approval of the County Administrator.  However, in no case shall the

total period of a leave of absence without pay exceed one year.

Section 2.  The following practices regarding Leaves of Absence without pay

shall apply:

(a)  Leave Without Pay shall be granted only when the employee has utilized

all accrued annual leave; and all accrued sick leave, if applicable.

(b)  If an employee fails to return to work at the expiration of approved

leave, the employee shall be terminated effective as of the last day of the

authorized leave of absence.

(c)  An employee granted Leave of Absence Without Pay and who wishes to

return  before  the  leave  period  has  expired,  shall  be  required  to  give  their

division head at least three (3) weeks notice.  Upon receipt of such written

notice, the employee must be permitted to return to work under conditions as

stipulated in this Article.

(d)  No sick leave or annual leave credit will be earned by an employee

during the time that the employee is on Leave Without Pay.  The employee shall

be covered by hospitalization benefits for 90 days from the commencement of Leave

Without Pay.

15

Blue Collar

(e)  Upon return from Leave Without Pay the employee shall be placed on the

same pay step of their salary range as at the time of commencement of leave.

(f)  An employee returning from a Leave of Absence Without Pay shall be

entitled to employment in the same division/office in the same or similar class

wherein employed when leave began.  This provision shall not apply to employees

who  have  been  placed  on  a  leave  of  Absence  Without  Pay  as  a  result  of  the

expiration of a disability leave.

(g)    No  seniority,  as  stipulated  in  Article  12,  will  be  earned  by  an

employee during the time that the employee is on leave without pay.  When the

employee returns from leave without pay, the employee shall be credited with all

seniority earned prior to their leave of absence.

(h)    An  employee  while  on  authorized  Leave  of  Absence  Without  Pay  who

obtains  employment  elsewhere  automatically  forfeits  their  position  with  the

County.

Section  3.    The  above  Provisions  do  not  apply  to  any  employee  who  is

granted a leave of absence without pay six (6) months or greater in order to be

employed as a Union Representative for the Federation of Public Employees,  a

division of the National Federation of Public and Private Employees (AFL-CIO).

A  fifteen  (15)  day  notice  to  the  County  must  be  submitted  by  the  employee

requesting such leave.

It is understood and agreed that should said employee return to employment

with the Broward County Commission, said employee shall return to their same or

equivalent  position  with  full  accrued  seniority,  benefits,  and  compensation

restored to the level which said employee would have received had no leave been

taken.  

It  is  understood  that  during  said  leave  the  employee  shall  not  earn

vacation, sick, or holiday leave from the County but shall utilize said leaves

14a

Blue Collar

from their employment by the Union.

A fifteen (15) day notice to the County must be submitted by the employee

prior to their return to work.

For example, if a ten (10) year County employee takes a five (5) year leave

of absence to be employed by the Union the County is not responsible for paying

the employee vacation, sick, and holiday leave during the time the employee is

on leave.  However, if the employee returns to the County at the expiration of

the five (5) year leave of absence, the employee returns to work as a fifteen

(15)  year  County  employee  for  all  purposes,  including  vacation  earned  for  a

fifteen (15) year employee.

Section 4.

The provisions of the Family and Medical leave Act of 1993

shall  apply  to  members  of  the  bargaining  unit.    Further,  any  leave  policies

affecting bargaining unit members will at least equal the requirements set forth

in the Family and Medical leave Act of 1993; however; leave policies affecting

bargaining unit members shall not be construed as providing leave in addition to

the length of leave to which a bargaining unit member may be entitled under the

Act.

14b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 15 Back to Table of Contents

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Section 1.  Any claim by an employee, group of employees, or the Federation

at  the  request  of  a  group  of  employees,  that  there  has  been  a  violation,

misinterpretation, or misapplication of any provisions of this Agreement; or any

rule,  order,  or  regulation  of  the  County  deemed  to  be  in  violation  of  the

Agreement may be processed as a grievance as is hereinafter provided.  Nothing

in this Article shall be construed to prevent any employee from presenting, at

any time, their own grievance in person or by legal counsel to the County, and

having such grievance adjusted without the intervention of the Federation, if the

adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement,

and if the Federation has been given reasonable opportunity to be present at any

meeting called for the resolution of such a grievance.

Section 2.  In the event that an employee believes there is a basis for a

grievance, the employee shall first informally discuss the alleged grievance with

the  immediate  supervisor  either  personally  or  if  the  employee  prefers,

accompanied by a Federation representative, within seven (7) working days of the

date on which the employee could reasonably have known of the occurrence of the

event giving rise to the alleged grievance.

Section 3.  If, as a result of the informal discussion with the immediate

supervisor, an alleged grievance still exists, the following Formal Grievance

Procedure may, at the option of the grievant, be invoked through the Federation

within  seven  (7)  working  days  after  the  informal  discussion.    The  Formal

Grievance shall be presented on the designated form, signed by both the grievant

and  a  representative  of  the  Federation,  which  shall  contain  all  known  facts

supporting the alleged grievance.

15

Blue Collar

Step 1:  Within the time frames set forth in Section 1, 2, and 3

above, a grievant may submit to their Division Director a copy of the grievance

on  the  designated  form.      Within  seven  (7)  working  days  of  receipt  of  the

grievance,  the  Division  Director  shall  meet  with  the  grievant  and/or  their

Federation representative in an effort to resolve the grievance.  The Division

Director shall indicate the disposition of the grievance in writing within seven

(7) working days after such meeting and shall furnish a copy thereof to the

Federation,  provided  that  when  the  grievant  is  satisfied  with  the  response,

processing of the grievance will automatically terminate.  In those grievances

arising from implementation of an action directed by the County Administration,

the formal procedure may be initiated at Step 3.  In those grievances arising

from  discharge  or  suspension  in  excess  of  one  (1)  day  the  formal  grievance

procedure shall be initiated at Step 2.

 Step 2. If the grievant is not satisfied with the disposition of the

grievance, or if no disposition has been made within the specified time limit,

the grievance shall be submitted to the Department Head and/or a designee within

seven  (7)  working  days  of  the  disposition  or  expiration  of  the  time  limit.

Within seven (7) working days the Department Head or a designee shall meet with

the  grievant  and/or  the  Federation  representative  and  shall  indicate  the

disposition of the grievance in writing within seven (7) working days of such

meeting and shall furnish a copy thereof to the Federation, provided that when

the grievant is satisfied with the response, processing of the grievance will

automatically terminate.

Step 3. If the grievant is not satisfied with the disposition of the

grievance, or if no disposition has been made within the specified time limit,

the grievance shall be submitted to the County Administrator and/or a designee

within seven (7) working days of the disposition or expiration of the time limit.

15a

Blue Collar

Within seven (7) working days the County Administrator or designee shall meet

with the grievant and/or the  Federation representative and shall indicate the

disposition of the grievance in writing within seven (7) working days of such

meeting and shall furnish a copy thereof to the Federation.

Step 4. If the grievant is not satisfied with the disposition of the

grievance by the County Administrator or a designee, or if no disposition has

been made within the specified time limit, the grievance may be submitted by the

Federation with the consent of the grievant, (or by an individual grievant, but

only if the grievant is a non-member and the Federation declines to process the

grievance on that basis alone) to arbitration before an impartial arbitrator

within twenty (20) working days of the date of disposition at Step 3, or the

expiration of the time limit, whichever comes first.  If the parties cannot agree

as to the arbitrator within seven (7) working days from the notification date

that arbitration will be pursued, the arbitrator shall be selected by the Federal

Mediation and Conciliation Service in accordance with its rules, which rules

shall likewise govern the arbitration proceedings.  The parties agree that the

award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding.

Section 4.  The losing party in an arbitration will pay the expenses of the

Arbitrator.    Each  party  shall  be  responsible  for  any  additional  expense  it

chooses to incur.

Section 5.  The time limits provided in this Article shall be strictly

observed  unless  extended  by  mutual  written  Agreement  of  the  parties.    The

definition of a working day shall not include Saturdays, Sundays or holidays. 

Section 6. In the event that the County does not respond within the stated

time  frames,  the  grievance  automatically  proceeds  to  the  next  level  in  the

grievance procedure, prior to arbitration. 

Section 7.  Adjustment of any grievance as described herein shall not be

15b

Blue Collar

inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.

Section 8.  The arbitrator shall be prohibited from modifying, changing,

adding to or subtracting from the terms of this Agreement or any supplementary

written  approved  amendment  entered  into  mutually  by  the  parties.    Any  case

appealed to the arbitrator on which the arbitrator has no power to rule shall be

referred back to the parties without decision.

Section 9.  The parties agree that the settlement of any grievance by the

parties  prior  to  the  rendition  of  a  decision  by  an  arbitrator  shall  not

constitute  an  admission  that  the  contract  has  been  violated  nor  shall  such

settlement constitute a precedent for the interpretation or application of the

provisions of the Agreement.

Section  10.    Nothing  in  this  Article  shall  require  the  Federation  to

process  grievances  for  employees  who  are  not  dues  paying  members  of  the

Federation.

Section 11.  The County's Civil Service grievance procedure shall not be

available to unit members for processing grievances arising under this Agreement.

Section  12.    Grievance  meetings  shall  be  conducted  during  business

operating hours and concluded by 5:00 p.m., unless the parties mutually agree to

continue the meeting.  Otherwise, the grievance hearing shall be rescheduled and

conducted on a mutually agreed upon date.  In the event a grievance meeting is

held  during  an  employee's  off-duty  time,  the  employee  will  not  receive

compensation for attendance at the grievance meeting.

Section 13.  The Director of the Division of Human Resources may prepare

an advisory opinion at anytime in the grievance process on the motion of the

Director of the Division of Human Resources.

Section  14.  If  the  grievant  or  the  Federation  notifies  the  County

Employee/Labor Relations Manager that a grievance has been filed on a formal

15c

Blue Collar

written reprimand and that the grievant wants the written reprimand not to become

part  of  the  official  personnel  file  until  the  completion  of  the  contractual

grievance procedure, the Division of Human Resources, Employee/Labor Relations

Section will not cause a formal written reprimand to be placed in that employee’s

official personnel file.  Such notification shall be in writing within five (5)

seven (7) working days from the filing of said grievance.

15d

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 16 Back to Table of Contents

FEDERATION BUSINESS

Section 1.  The County agrees that a duly designated Federation Business

Agent shall be permitted, during the workday, to enter upon the County's premises

and in those areas which are not devoted to the performance of the employees'

duties,  for  the  limited  purpose  of  conferring  and  consulting  with  the  Chief

Steward during the steward's break or lunch period; or during the Chief Steward's

workday provided the Federation Business Agent receives prior approval of the

Director of Human Resources which approval will be based upon those circumstances

where it is urgent to resolve a specific problem with the Chief Steward for the

mutual benefit of labor and management.  The Business Agent of the Federation

shall, on arrival at the County Division or premises, report to the department

head or supervisor in charge.

The  Federation  agrees  that  all  such  visits  by  its  officers  or

representatives shall not cause any work stoppage, work disruption or interfere

in  any  manner  with  the  County's  business  or  departmental  operations.    The

Federation further agrees that any telephone calls to the Chief Steward shall not

interfere with the employee's job.

Section 2.  The County shall provide the Federation with reasonable space

and access to existing Division bulletin boards in those Divisions where members

of the Federation are employed and the Federation may erect bulletin boards where

none exist.  Space designated for the Federation shall not be used for County

notices or bulletins.  All notices or bulletins of the Federation that are to be

posted must be submitted to the County Administrator for the County or the County

Administrator’s duly authorized representative, for approval prior to posting

with a copy for the County.  There shall be no other general distribution or

16

Blue Collar

posting by employees of pamphlets, advertising or political matter, notices, or

any kind of literature upon County property other than as herein provided.

The bulletin boards, authorized by the County for use by the Federation,

may be used by the Federation, under the terms of this Article, only for the

purpose of posting the following notices and announcements:

A.

B.

C.

D.

Notices of Federation meetings and minutes of meetings;

Notices of Federation elections;

Notices of Federation appointments to office;

Notices of Federation recreational, social affairs, benefits, and

other Federation activities.

Approval of the above-enumerated notices shall be granted by the County

Administrator,  or  the  County  Administrator’s  duly  authorized  representative,

unless the material violates the provisions of this Agreement or is harmful to

employee labor relations.

Any intentional violation of this provision by the Federation will result

in the privilege of such use of the bulletin boards being withdrawn.

Section 3.

A.

The County agrees to recognize one Chief Steward for each Division

as selected by the Federation as exclusive spokesman for that Division for the

purpose  of  contract  administration.    In  those  divisions  where  employees  are

geographically separated, the County agrees to one additional representative, as

assistant  to  the  Chief  Steward.    The  name  of  the  on-site  Federation

representatives shall be furnished to the County by the Federation.  In the event

of a change in the designated on-site Federation representatives, the County will

be notified forthwith.  The Division Director, or their designee, shall deal only

with  the  Division  Chief  Steward  and/or  one  of  the  two  designated  Security

Stewards.  There shall also be one additional Steward allocated to the security

16a

Blue Collar

section in the Maintenance Division.

B.

The Division of Utilities shall recognize an FPE designated Chief Job

Steward for the Division.  In addition, the Utilities Division shall recognize

two (2) on-site representatives for the Water Supply Operating Section (1 north

and 1 south), one (1) for Wastewater Treatment Operating Section and one (1) for

Solid Waste Management Operating Section.

The designated on-site representative for each operational section or Chief

Job Steward shall process the informal conference of the grievance procedure with

the County designated supervisor at the operating section where the complaint

arises.

Any grievance reduced to writing shall be processed by the designated Chief

Job Steward regardless of the originating operating section, and the appropriate

operational manager.

All grievances processed thereafter shall follow the provisions of Article

15.

C.  In the event an employee receives a written disciplinary warning or

notice and requests the presence of a Chief Steward for the interview with the

employee’s  supervisor  relative  to  said  written  warning  or  a  grievance  is

processed during the Chief Steward's regular working hours, the County agrees to

compensate the Chief Steward during the time their presence is necessary, the

County agrees to compensate the Chief Steward at the Chief Steward's regular rate

of pay.

16b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 17 Back to Table of Contents

DUES DEDUCTION

Dues deductions shall be made per form attached hereto.  There shall be no

charge  made  by  the  County  for  deduction  of  Union  dues.    Any  change  in  the

percentage of dues to be deducted shall be given to the County thirty (30) days

in advance.  Dues shall be transmitted to the Federation within thirty (30) days

after monthly deduction.

The County shall permit the union to maintain a separate payroll deduction

slot  designated  specifically  for  the  Federation  Insurance  Program.    The

Federation of Public Employees agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the County

and its agents against any and all claims, suits or other forms of liability and

all Court costs arising out of the application of the provisions of this Article.

17

Blue Collar

AUTHORIZATION TO DEDUCT

TO THE COUNTY OF BROWARD, FLORIDA

I hereby assign to the Federation from any wages earned or to be earned by
me as your employee, my periodic dues in such amounts as are now or hereafter
established by the Federation and become due to it as my membership dues in said
Federation.  I authorize and direct you to deduct and withhold such amounts from
my salary and to remit the same to said Federation.  I hereby waive all rights
and  claims  to  said  monies  deducted  and  transmitted  in  accordance  with  this
authorization, and release the County and all its officers from any liability
therefor.

This assignment, authorization and direction shall be revocable at anytime

upon thirty (30) days written notification to the County and the Federation.

WITNESS:

___________________________________

___________________________________
Employee Name (signature)

Social Security No. _______________

Date:______________________________

___________________________________
Employee Name (printed)

___________________________________
Department/Division

Copy furnished to:

Federation of Public Employees,
A Division of the National Federation 
of Public and Private Employees (AFL-CIO)
1700 NW 66th Avenue - Suite 100
Plantation, Florida 33313

17a

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 18 Back to Table of Contents

SAVINGS/PREVAILING RIGHTS CLAUSE

Section 1.  If any provisions of this Agreement or the application of any

such provisions should be rendered or declared invalid by any court action, or

by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation, the remaining

parts or portions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and the

subject matter of such invalid provision shall be open to immediate negotiations

between both parties.

Section 2.  All rights and working conditions enjoyed throughout the County

by  unit  employees  at  the  present  time  and  authorized  by  County  Ordinance,

Resolution, written directive of the County Administrator, and by the Division

of Human Resources which are not specifically referred to in this Agreement shall

not be changed by the County unless said rights and working conditions interfere

with the operational needs of the County.

Section 3.  When a conflict exists between the language of the terms and

conditions of the Agreement and the Broward County Civil Service Rules and 

Regulations, the Agreement shall prevail.

18

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 19 Back to Table of Contents

SAFETY

Section 1.  County Safety Board

In  accordance  with  Administrative  Order  300,  the  County  will  have  a

Countywide  Safety  Board.    The  purpose  of  the  board  shall  be  to  monitor  the

overall performance of the County's Safety and Loss Control programs and make

recommendations to improve same.  This bargaining unit will be entitled to three

members on this Board.

Section 2.

A.    Division  Safety  Committee:    Divisions  will  have  either  a  safety

representative or safety committee, depending on the number of bargaining unit

employees.  The number of employees on the committee will be in proportion to the

bargaining unit's representation of the division's work force.  The purpose of

the  Committee  will  be  to  review,  report,  and  make  recommendations  on  safety

deficiencies.  They will meet on a regular basis and committee members will be

paid their regular rate of pay.  All committee actions will be documented and the

County Safety Coordinator shall receive a copy of such documentation.

B.    There  shall  be  meetings  attended  by  the  Federation  Business

Representative  or  designee,  two  employees  selected  by  the  Federation,  the

Director  of  Human  Resources  or  designee,  the  Risk  Management  Director  or

designee, and the County Safety Coordinator.

The  purpose  of  these  meetings  is  for  the  Federation  to  discuss  safety

issues and make recommendations involving safety practices throughout the County

including the consistent application of County safety rules and regulations.  The

purpose of such meetings shall not be to resolve grievances or negotiate contract

language.

19

Blue Collar

Meetings shall be held once quarterly at times and places mutually agreed

by the participants.

Section 3.  Safety Shoes

Employees in classifications/positions where it is warranted, will receive

one pair of safety shoes per year.  The County Safety Coordinator will be

responsible  for  deciding  what  positions  receive  safety  shoes  and  the  Safety

Coordinator’s decision will be based on the recommendation of the Division Safety

Committee  representative  and  the  Safety  Coordinator’s  interpretation  of  OSHA

requirements.  Management shall determine the type and quality of such shoes.

Those employees designated to receive shoes will be reimbursed one hundred

percent of the price of safety shoes up to the following amounts:

A.

B.

C.

D.

Shoes - standard and low-quarter - $82.50

Boots - $82.50

Electrical/Non-conductive - $82.50

Welders - $82.50

Appropriate Solid Waste Division employees shall be entitled to one (1)

pair of safety shoes per fiscal year and the County shall furnish one pair of

safety rubber boots every three (3) years.

The employee may purchase the shoes anywhere the employee wishes so long

as they meet OSHA standards and the employee submits a receipt for proof and

amount of purchase.  This will obligate the employee to report to work each day

in safety shoes.

Section 4.  Tools

The County agrees to replace employee provided tools which are broken or

worn out on the job.  It is a requirement that such tools be necessary to perform

the employee's duties.  Such broken or worn out tools must be surrendered to the

designated  person  in  the  Division.    Replacement  may  be  accomplished  through

19a

Blue Collar

County in kind or reimbursement, and like quality shall be replaced with like

quality.

Section 5.  County Accident Review Board

The purpose of this Board shall be to review accidents and injuries to

determine whether such accidents and injuries are preventable.  This Board must

review both the employee's and the supervisor's written account of the accident

or injury prior to rendering a decision.

19b

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 20 Back to Table of Contents

PERSONAL VEHICLE COMPENSATION

The  County,  subject  to  authorization  and  in  compliance  with  the  rules

covering the use of private vehicles, agrees to compensate employees for the use

of the individual's vehicle while traveling on County business.

Such employees shall be reimbursed at the established County rate per mile

or applicable state rate, whichever is greater, and in accordance with County

policy for use of said personal vehicle. 

20

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 21 Back to Table of Contents

NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS

The parties agree to comply with the provisions of Florida Statutes Chapter

447, as amended, relating to strikes and lockouts.

21

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 22 Back to Table of Contents

MILITARY LEAVE

The County agrees to allow military leave for employees in the bargaining

unit pursuant to county, state, and federal law. 

22

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 23 Back to Table of Contents

VOTING/CIVIL LEAVE

Section 1.  The County agrees to permit unit employees reasonable time off

to vote when not feasible to vote before or after working hours, not to exceed

one  (1)  hour  during  national,  state  and  county  elections.    Said  employee

requesting the time off must be a registered voter.

Compensation for the voting time must not exceed one (1) hour and shall be

computed at the employee's straight time rate of pay.

Section 2.  Employees shall be granted Civil Leave with pay when performing

jury duty, when subpoenaed to appear before any public body or commission to

represent the County, or when performing emergency civilian duty in connection

with national defense.  Fees and travel expenses paid by the Court shall be

retained by the employee.

23

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 24 Back to Table of Contents

DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING

Section 1:  In consideration of the legitimate concerns and interest the

Employer and the Union both have in workplace safety and job performance and that

both parties recognize that drug and alcohol abuse may have an adverse impact on

County government, the image of County employees, and the general health, welfare

and safety of the employees and the general public at large; and in consideration

of the fact that both parties also recognize that drug and alcohol abuse are

treatable  illnesses  that  will  be  treated,  where  feasible,  with  emphasis  on

rehabilitation and education.  The Employer and the Union hereby agree:

(A)  The Employer will not take action against an employee based on the

employee’s  off-duty  conduct  unless  the  employer  can  demonstrate  that  the

employee's off-duty conduct is impairing the employee's on-the-job performance.

(B)  That cooperation with the employees and their representative offers

the best solution to ensuring workplace safety and job performance, while at the

same time assisting those individuals suffering from drug and alcohol addition.

(C)  All aspects of this substance abuse program will be fully explained

to all employees to whom it will apply to and any dispute evolving from this

program  will  be  subject  to  the  grievance  arbitration  procedures.    Employees

covered by the Agreement will have the right to union representation through all

stages of the procedures defined in this Article.  However, in no event will the

test be delayed by more than two (2) hours.

Section 2:  The County may require any employee to submit to a blood and/or

urine analysis when it has a reasonable belief that an employee is impaired in

the performance of their duties because the employee is under the influence of

alcohol, drugs or narcotics.  To permit testing, the County must have reasonable

24

Blue Collar

belief based upon the observations of two (2) or more supervisors, if possible,

establishing reasonable belief to believe that an employee is impaired by illegal

drugs or alcohol.  The employee shall be provided, upon request, with a separate

container for a portion of the sample which is collected.

Section 3:  Random substance tests will be strictly prohibited except as

provided in Section 5 and 7 below.

Section  4:    All  tests  shall  be  conducted  in  a  reputable  hospital  or

laboratory selected by the County.  The laboratory must follow guidelines for

procedures and standards as established by Health & Human Services (HHS) and the

National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) at a minimum.  There shall be a two step

initial screening process run concurrently, i.e.,  consisting of TLD (Thin Layer

Chromatography)  and  EMOT  (Enzyme  Multiplied  Immunoassay  Technique).    The

confirmation step of all samples testing positive during initial screening shall

consist of a GC/MS (Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry) test.

Section 5:

(A)  At the conclusion of the drug and/or alcohol testing, the County may

discipline an employee subject to the just cause standard of this Agreement.

However, in the case of an employee who has not previously tested positive, and

except in cases involving moderate or major property damage, personal injury or

gross misconduct by the employee, the employee shall be permitted to enter a

County approved chemical dependency program.

(B)  Upon successful completion of rehabilitation (as determined by the

County physician) the employee shall be returned to their regular duty assignment

or the equivalent thereof.  If follow-up care is prescribed after treatment, such

may be imposed by the County as a condition of continued employment.  Moreover,

the parties agree that entry into such a chemical dependency program shall be

deemed to constitute reasonable belief that the employee is under the influence

24a

Blue Collar

of or using drugs, narcotics, or alcohol, and that, accordingly, the employee may

be subject to two testing procedures as outlined in Section 4 of this Article as

required by management for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date

that the employee returns to duty.  Should an employee refuse to submit to drug

or  alcohol  testing  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Section,  to

voluntarily enter a County approved chemical dependency program, to successfully

complete or to otherwise comply with the requirements of such program, to comply

with the requirements of any follow-up care, or should the employee test positive

for drugs, narcotics or alcohol during the aforesaid six (6) month period, the

employee shall be immediately dismissed.

Section 6:  An employee's refusal to submit to drug or alcohol testing in

accordance with the provisions of this Article may result in disciplinary action

being taken against the employee up to and including dismissal subject to the

just cause standard of this Agreement.

Section 7:

(A)    An  employee  will  be  allowed  to  voluntarily  enter  a  County

approved  chemical  dependency  program,  assuming  that  the  employee  has  had  no

history of substance influence or use.  This does not preclude the County from

taking  any  disciplinary  action  for  any  infraction  other  than  the  chemical

dependency for which the employee is seeking assistance.

(B)  Upon successful completion of rehabilitation (as determined by

the  County  physician)  the  employee  shall  be  returned  to  their  regular  duty

assignment or the equivalent thereof.  If follow-up care is prescribed after

treatment,  such  may  be  imposed  by  the  County  as  a  condition  of  continued

employment.    Moreover,  the  parties  agree  that  entry  into  such  a  chemical

dependency  program  shall  be  deemed  to  constitute  reasonable  belief  that  the

employee is under the influence of or using drugs, narcotics, or alcohol, and

24b

Blue Collar

that,  accordingly,  the  employee  may  be  subject  to  two  testing  procedures  as

outlined in Section 4 of this Article as required by management for a period not

to exceed six (6) months from the date that the employee returns to duty.  Should

an employee refuse to submit to drug or alcohol testing in accordance with the

provisions  of  this  Section,  to  voluntarily  enter  a  County  approved  chemical

dependency program, to successfully complete or to otherwise comply with the

requirements of such program, to comply with the requirements of any follow-up

care, or should the employee test positive for drugs, narcotics or alcohol during

the aforesaid six (6) month period, the employee shall be immediately dismissed.

(c)  Two (2) years after treatment is completed, the records of such

treatment and positive drug test results shall be retired to a closed medical

record.  The employee shall be given a fresh start with a clean administrative

record and the retired records shall not be used against the employee in any

proceeding.

Section 8:  The Union, upon request, shall have the right to observe any

aspect  of  the  drug  testing  program,  with  the  exception  of  individual  test

results.  The Union may inspect individual test results only if the release of

such information is authorized by the employee involved.

Section 9:  NO WAIVER OF LEGAL RIGHTS:  The Employer and the Union agree

that this program shall not diminish the rights of individual employees under

State and/or Federal laws relating to drug and/or alcohol testing.

24c

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 25 Back to Table of Contents

MEDICAL ARBITRATION

Should the County determine that any employee is physically or mentally

unfit to perform the essential duties for which the employee was employed, the

employee may, at their option, have a review of the case in the following manner:

A.  The employee may employ a licensed physician of their own choosing and

at their own expense for the purpose of conducting a further medical examination

for  the  same  or  recommended  purpose  of  the  medical  examination  made  by  the

physician employed by the County.  A copy of the findings of the physician so

chosen by the employee involved shall be furnished to the County, and in the

event such findings verify the findings of the physician employed by the County,

no further medical review of the case shall be afforded.

B.  In the event the findings of the physician chosen by the employee

involved  shall  disagree  with  the  findings  of  the  physician  employed  by  the

County, the County and the employee involved shall, within five (5) days from

such disagreement agree upon and select a third (3rd) board certified specialist

in the area for which the employee complains, who is a qualified, licensed and

disinterested, physician for the purpose of making a further medical examination

of the employee involved.  If  the third (3rd) physician agrees to make a further

medical  examination  of  the  employee  involved,  the  employee  must  secure  an

appointment  with  the  third  (3rd)  physician  within  five  (5)  days  of  such

acceptance.  The third (3rd) physician shall have five (5) days from the date of

the  physician’s  medical  examination  of  the  employee  involved  to  submit  the

physician’s findings to the County, the employee, and/or the Union.  The findings

of the third (3rd) neutral physician, shall determine the disposition of the case

25

Blue Collar

and be final and binding upon the parties hereto.  The expense of the employment

of  such  third  (3rd)  physician  shall  be  borne  equally  by  the  County  and  the

employee.

 ARTICLE 26 Back to Table of Contents

TERM OF AGREEMENT

  The  provisions  of  this  agreement  are  for  the  fiscal  years  1999/2000,

2000/2001, and 2001/2002  and shall be effective upon ratification of the Union

membership and approval of the Board of County Commissioners for Broward County,

Florida except as otherwise provided in the agreement, and shall continue in

force thereafter, through September 30, 2002.  Thereafter, this Agreement shall

remain in effect, except for any provisions which specifically expire or are date

specific,  until  a  successor  Agreement  is  ratified  by  the  bargaining  unit

membership and then approved by the Board of Broward County Commissioners. 

26

Blue Collar

ARTICLE 27 Back to Table of Contents

LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING

The  attached  letters  of  understanding  described  below  are  part  of  the

agreement and will continue in effect throughout the term of this Agreement:

1.) December 12, 1995 

re:

Chief Representative of the Federation

2.) January 18, 1996

re:

Employees  testifying  on Behalf of a

Grievant in an Arbitration

3.) June 19, 1996

re:

Four (4) Day Work Week / Holidays

4.) September 15, 1999

re:

Violence in the Workplace Policy / Labor

Management Committee

5.) September 27, 1999

re:

Classification  Study for Senior Plans

Examiners and Library Storekeeper Positions

 27

Blue Collar

SIGNATURE PAGE Back to Table of Contents

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed

and signed by their duly authorized representatives, as of this _______ day of

_________________________, 19 _____.

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES
A DIVISION OF THE NATIONAL
FEDERATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
EMPLOYEES (AFL-CIO) 

                  

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA BY ITS
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS 

BY________________________________
  President

BY______________________________
  Commission Chairperson

BY________________________________
  Co-Chief Negotiator

BY______________________________
  County Administrator

BY________________________________
  Co-Chief Negotiator
           

BY______________________________ 
  Human Resources Director

BY_______________________________
  Negotiating Team Member

BY______________________________
  Labor Relations Manager

BY_______________________________
  Negotiating Team Member

BY______________________________
  Human Resources Analyst

BY_______________________________
  Negotiating Team Member

 28

Blue Collar

