Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

23

Language English

Country United States

State

FL

Union National Federation of Public and Private Employees (AFL-CIO)

Local

"Port Non-Supervisory"

Multiple occupations represented

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Government Supervisors of Broward Co., FL
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2000

Source

http://www.broward.org/hui04101.pdf

Original_format PDF (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

BETWEEN 

BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

-AND-

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, 

A DIVISION OF THE NATIONAL FEDERATION 

OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EMPLOYEES (AFL - CIO)

NON-SUPERVISORY UNIT

EFFECTIVE  FISCAL YEAR 98/99 THROUGH 99/00 

The parties hereby agree to enter into a two (2) year Collective Bargaining Agreement
covering the period from October 1, 1998 through September 30, 2000 and incorporates by
reference all provisions of the previous Agreement dated March 4, 1996, unchanged, with the
exception of a change to the following provision of Article 14, Wages and Pay Plan:

Delete Old Section F 

Add New Section F

1.  Fiscal Year 1998/1999

A.

B.

Effective the first full pay period of October 1998, all pay grades, pay steps and
wage rates will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as reflected in Appendix
A1.  

All bargaining unit employees employed in a bargaining unit position during
Fiscal Year 1998/1999 (October 1, 1998 through September 30, 1999) and
continuously employed in a bargaining unit position through the signing of this
Agreement or deceased between Fiscal Year 1998/1999 and the signing of
this  Agreement,  shall  receive  a  five  (5)  percent  pay  adjustment  to  base
described  in  paragraph  1A  above,  prospectively  not  to  exceed  the  new
maximum rate of the pay range.  Retroactive payment for this increase shall be
equal to  five (5) percent of  the employee’s wages as indicated on his/her 1998
W-2 (IRS) Form, (Box 3 - Social Security Wages).

2.  Fiscal Year 1999/2000

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

A.

B.

Effective the first full pay period in October 1999, all pay grades, pay steps and
wage rates will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as reflected in Appendix
A2. 

All bargaining unit employees employed in a  bargaining unit position during
Fiscal Year 1999/2000 (October 1, 1999 through September 30, 2000) and
continuously employed in a bargaining unit position through the signing of this
Agreement or deceased between Fiscal Year 1999/2000 and the signing of
this  Agreement,  shall  receive  the  five  (5)  percent  pay  adjustment  to  base
described  in  paragraph  2A  above,  prospectively  not  to  exceed  the  new
maximum rate of the pay range.  Retroactive payment for this increase  shall be
equal to  five (5) percent of  the employee’s wages as indicated on his/her 1999
W-2 (IRS) Form, (Box 3 - Social Security Wages).  

Subsequent  to  approval  by  the  Broward  County  Commission,  this  Agreement  shall  be
effective for the period between October 1, 1998 through September 30, 2000. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed and
signed by their duly authorized representatives this ______ day of _____________, 2000.

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES,
A DIVISION THE NATIONAL     
FEDERATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
EMPLOYEES (AFL-CIO)

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA
BY ITS BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS

By___________________________
  DIVISION PRESIDENT 

By______________________________
   CHAIRPERSON

By___________________________
  BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE

By______________________________
  COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR

By___________________________
  WITNESS

By______________________________
  WITNESS

By___________________________
  WITNESS

By______________________________
  WITNESS

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

AGREEMENT

-Between-

THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS 

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

-And-

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, 

A DIVISION OF THE NATIONAL FEDERATION 

OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EMPLOYEES (AFL - CIO)

NON-SUPERVISORY UNIT

Effective FY 2000/2001, 2001/2002 and 2002/2003 

INDEX

ARTICLE 

SUBJECT

  

PAGE

1

2

3 

4

5

6 

7

8

9

10

11 

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

Recognition 

Discrimination

Management Rights

Grievance Procedure

Arbitration

Impasse Resolution

On-Site Representative

Bulletin Boards

Job Posting, Filling Vacancies
and New Positions

Working Out of Class

Safety Board

Work Week

Overtime

Wages and Pay Plan

 

Holidays

Vacation

Sick Leave

Leave of Absence Without Pay

Probation

Rules and Regulations

    

    

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

 

   

1

3

    

          4

5

8

          10

11

13

14

15

          16

17

18

20

29

31

33

35

37

38

    

   

   

   

   

   

   

-ii-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

INDEX (CONTINUED)

ARTICLE 

SUBJECT

  

PAGE

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

Termination

Layoff and Recall

Seniority

Uniforms and Equipment

Union Deductions

 

 

Use of Payroll Unit For
Distribution of Union Material   

Jury Duty

Military Leave

Bereavement Leave

Pallbearer

 

Educational Reimbursements

Personal Property Damage

 

 

 

Political Activity

Strikes, Slowdowns

Voting Time

Successor Clause

Savings Clause

Totality of Agreement

Group Insurance 

Long Term Disability

   

   

  

   

   

 

 

 

   

   

 

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

39

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

60

-iii-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

INDEX (CONTINUED)

ARTICLE 

SUBJECT

  

PAGE

41        

Term of Agreement        

   

Signature Page 

   

61

62

-iv-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 1

RECOGNITION

Broward County recognizes the Federation of Public Employees, a Division of the

National  Federation  of  Public  and  Private  Employees  AFL-CIO,  as  the  exclusive

representative for purposes of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours

of employment and other terms and conditions of employment in the following designated unit:

     Included:

All regular full and part-time non-professional non-exempt employees employed by

Broward  County  Department  of  the  Port  Everglades  in  the  following  classifications:

Receptionist,  Filing  Clerk,  Clerk  Typist,  General  Administrative  Clerk,  Documentation

Coordinator, Billing Clerk I, Billing Clerk II, Billing Controller, Computer Operator, Statistical

Controller, Security Officer, Sergeant - Security Officer, Chief Linesman, Linesman, Computer

Data  Controller,  Bookkeeper,  Associate  Wharfinger,  Draftsperson,  Surveyor,  Secretary,

Foreign  Trade  Zone  Warehouse  Assistant,  Duty  Harbormaster,  Secretary/Accounts

Specialist, Engineering File Clerk, Marketing & Sales Clerk.  Any employee employed in any

other job classification mutually agreed to by the parties.

     Excluded:

All other County employees except those employees employed in any job classification

mutually agreed to by the parties.

Whenever used in this Agreement, the word "Employee" or "Employees" shall mean

any person or persons employed in the aforedescribed unit as defined by the Florida

-1-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

Public Employees Relations Commission, Case No. RC-81-002, Certification #557, as

amended, Certification of Exclusive Bargaining Representative.

-2-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 2

DISCRIMINATION

The County and the Federation agree that the basic intent of this Agreement is to

provide a harmonious working relationship between the County and the Federation.  The

County and the Federation agree that all provisions of this Agreement shall be applied to all

employees covered by it and that the County and the Federation affirm their joint opposition

to  any  discriminatory  practices  in  connection  with  employment,  promotion  or  training,

remembering that the public law and public interest require no discrimination on account of

race, color, creed, handicap, national origin, age or sex.

Employees shall have the right to join the Federation to engage in lawful concerted

activities for the purpose of collective bargaining, to express and communicate any view,

grievance, complaint or opinion relative to conditions or compensation of public employment

or  its  betterment,  all  free  of  any  restraint,  coercion,  intimidation  or  reprisal  against  any

employee because of that employee's membership or lack of membership in the Federation

or by virtue of any employee-member holding office in the Federation.  This provision shall be

applied to all employees employed by the County and represented by the Federation.

-3-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 3

MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

It is understood that the County has the right to operate the department and divisions

of Port Everglades and this Agreement shall not be construed to limit in any way the right of

the County to manage and operate its business.

In order to fulfill this commitment and responsibility, management shall have the right,

subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement, to:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

Hire, promote and evaluate employees.

Discipline, demote, suspend or discharge employees for just cause.

Determine unilaterally the purpose of each department, division or operation.

Determine what reasonable work activities are performed.

Exercise control and discretion over the organization and operation of the
County.

Cause reductions in work force for legitimate reasons.

Set standards of service to be provided.

To formulate, change or modify rules, regulations and procedures provided it
is not contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.

-4-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 4

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Section A

A grievance shall be defined as any controversy or dispute arising between the parties

involving  questions  of  interpretation  or  application  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this

Agreement and other conditions of employment.  Having a desire to create and maintain labor

relations harmony between them, the parties hereto agree that they will promptly attempt to

adjust all complaints, disputes, controversies or other grievances arising between them

involving  questions  of  interpretation  or  application  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this

Agreement and other conditions of employment.

Section B

Thus, should differences or disputes arise between the parties to this Agreement or

between the employees covered herein and the County, other than cases of discharge and/or

suspension, the aggrieved party to this Agreement or employee, or employees, as the case

may be, shall use the following procedures:

Step 1.

In the event that an employee believes there is a basis for a grievance, said employee

shall  first  discuss  promptly  the  alleged  grievance  with  the  immediate  supervisor,  either

privately, or if said employee prefers, accompanied by the on-site Federation representative

within a reasonable period of time of the date of the occurrence of the event giving rise to the

grievance.  The supervisor shall then respond within five working days.

Step 2.

In the event the aggrieved employee and/or the Union is not satisfied with the decision

-5-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

of the supervisor, the grievant and/or the on-site Federation representative shall present the

grievance in writing to the employee's Division head within five (5) working days of the date

of the aforesaid decision.  Upon presentation of this written grievance to the Division head,

and within five (5) working days thereafter, the Division head, the employee and the on-site

Federation representative shall attempt to resolve the same dispute and, within five (5)

working days thereafter, the department head shall render a decision in writing to both the

employee and to the on-site Federation representative.

Step 3.

In the event the aggrieved employee and/or the Union is not satisfied with the written

answer to Step 2 above, the said grievance shall be presented within five (5) working days

after the written answer above to the Port Director, or his designee, who will, within five (5)

working days of the receipt of same, meet with a representative of the Federation in an

attempt to resolve the said grievance.  At this meeting, the employee and/or the on-site

Federation representative may also be present.  Within five (5) working days after this

meeting, the Port Director or his designee shall render a decision in writing.

Section C

In the event an employee is discharged and/or suspended by the County, the aggrieved

party to this Agreement or employee or employees shall, within a reasonable period of time,

grieve his discharge and/or suspension to the Port Director, or his designee who shall, within

five (5) working days of the receipt of the same, meet with a representative of the Federation

in an attempt to resolve the grievance.  At this meeting the employee and/or the on-site

Federation representative shall also be present.  Within five (5) working days after this

meeting, the Port Director shall render his decision in writing.

-6-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

Section D

With respect to discharge and/or suspension, the County shall notify the affected

employee no later than ten (10) working days from the date the County fixes the responsibility

for the incident upon which the discharge and/or suspension is based.  The County's failure

to comply with the ten (10) working day period shall constitute a waiver of its rights to take any

disciplinary action against the employee or employees, including, but not limited to, oral

reprimand, written reprimand, suspensions or discharges, for the incident.

Section E

The time limitations provided in this Article shall be strictly observed and shall be

extended  only  by  written  agreement  of  the  parties.    In  the  event  that  the  County  or  the

Federation fails to comply with any of the aforesaid time limitations in Steps 1-3 of the

grievance procedure or Section C and/or D of this Article, the County shall be deemed to have

waived its right to contest said grievance and said grievance shall be sustained with all

requested relief automatically implemented, and should the Federation fail to so comply the

grievance shall be deemed denied and no relief granted.

Section F

Application to this procedure shall foreclose the grievant from appealing to any other

available County procedure or vice-versa.

Section G

Nothing in this Article shall require the Federation to process grievances for employees

who are not members of the Federation, in conformity with Florida law.

-7-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 5

ARBITRATION

Section A

In the event any disputes and/or differences, including discharges and suspensions,

have  been  properly  processed  through  the  grievance  procedure  without  resolution,  the

Federation may demand arbitration and this demand, in writing, shall be presented to the Port

Director, or his designee, within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the decision of the

previous step.

The arbitrator shall be appointed by mutual consideration of the parties.  In the event

the parties are unable to agree upon a neutral within ten (10) working days after the arbitration

is invoked, either party may petition the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and

request a list of five (5) qualified arbitrators and from said list the parties shall alternately strike

and select a single arbitrator to preside as a neutral at the hearing involving the grievance.

The decision of said arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties.  The

arbitrator shall not be empowered to alter, amend, add to, or eliminate any provisions of this

Collective Bargaining Agreement.  Expenses shall be borne equally by both parties.

Section B

    In the event that an employee has been disciplined to the extent that he or she has been

suspended or discharged and is reinstated by an arbitrator's decision, the employee shall be

reinstated with all back pay and with no loss or impairment of any rights under this

-8-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

Agreement or other rules and regulations of the County, unless directed otherwise by the

arbitrator.

Section C

In the event that any employee has been suspended and that suspension is upheld, that

employee, upon the expiration of that suspension, shall be fully reinstated to his or her former

position with no loss or impairment of any of his or her rights under this Collective Bargaining

Agreement or other rules and regulations of the County.

-9-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 6

IMPASSE RESOLUTION

In the event that there is an impasse in negotiations concerning the negotiation of a new

collective bargaining agreement or the mutual amendment of an existing collective bargaining

agreement, the parties agree that the resolution of any impasse issues shall be governed by

the provisions of Florida Statutes Chapter 447, as amended.  

-10-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 7

ON-SITE REPRESENTATIVE

Section A

The Federation shall have four (4) on-site representatives and four (4) alternates, for

the  designated  unit  and  shall  notify  the  County  of  those  representatives  by  mail.    The

Federation shall then designate from among the four (4) on-site representatives a chief on-site

representative.

Section B

Each on-site representative will be given up to fifteen (15) minutes with pay to discuss

any  grievance  with  a  unit  member.    If  a  grievance  is  filed  and  processed,  the  on-site

representative will be permitted to attend any grievance meeting called by the County at no

loss of pay.

Section C

The chief on-site representative shall have the right to attend any and/or all meetings,

conferences, etc., between the Authority and the Federation concerning rates of pay, rules

and/or working conditions affecting employees within the designated unit at no loss of pay.

Section D

The chief on-site representative will be permitted two (2) days off per year and the

alternate  one  (1)  day  off  per  year  without  loss  of  pay  to  attend  an  officially  sanctioned

Federation seminar, meeting or convention.

-11-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

Section E

For purposes of reduction in work force, the on-site representative shall be entitled to

super seniority.

-12-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 8

BULLETIN BOARDS

The County agrees that The Department of Port Everglades shall provide space on all

bulletin boards within its jurisdiction for use by the Federation.

All notices to be posted shall be submitted to the Port Director or his designee.  Upon

receipt, and within one (1) working day, the Port Director or his designee shall have posted

said notices.

-13-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 9

JOB POSTING, FILLING

VACANCIES AND NEW POSITIONS

When the County is actively seeking to fill a vacancy or creates a new position within

this bargaining unit, the County shall be required to post said vacancy within five (5) working

days of such an event.  The notice shall be posted for three (3) consecutive working days and

shall include a job description, job grade, rate of pay and deadline for application.  Each

regular full-time employee within the bargaining unit shall have the first opportunity to apply and

be considered for such position.  Following the posting deadline, the applicants shall be

interviewed and evaluated based upon their ability to perform the job.  All things being equal,

the applicant with the most seniority shall be appointed.

-14-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 10

WORKING OUT OF CLASS

Section A

Whenever an employee is requested to perform the tasks of a higher graded position

that employee shall receive the rate of pay of that higher graded position or five percent (5%)

above his/her regular rate of pay if the rate of pay for the higher graded position is less than

five percent (5%) over and above that employee's regular rate of pay and his/her regular

position whichever is greater for each and every hour worked in any higher grade during that

contract year.

Section B

An employee temporarily assigned to a lower graded position shall be compensated

at the rate of pay received in his/her regularly assigned job grade.

-15-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 11

SAFETY BOARD

The County agrees that it shall establish a Safety Board which shall convene monthly

during normal business hours.  The County further agrees that one representative from this

bargaining unit shall serve on the Board at no loss of pay and/or other fringe benefits.  The

business of the Board shall consist of periodic review of occupational and safety standards

at    the  Department  of  Port  Everglades  and  review  of  all  safety  complaints  made  by

employees.  Any resolution and/or recommended action by the Board shall be directed, in

writing, to the Port Director or his designee to be acted upon immediately.

-16-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 12

WORK WEEK

The work week of all employees shall be five (5) consecutive days followed by two (2)

consecutive days off.  In the event that there is any change in any of the employee's work

schedule, the County shall give notice to both the employee and the Federation, in writing, two

(2)  weeks  prior  to  any  change.    When  an  emergency  exists,  the  two  (2)  week  notice

requirement may be waived.

-17-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 13

OVERTIME

Section A

An  employee  who  works  in  excess  of  eight  (8)  hours  in  any  work  day  shall  be

compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate of pay for

all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours.  For purposes of computation of overtime,

employees shall be paid in terms of whole hours.  Anytime an employee works less than a full

hour of overtime, he/she shall be compensated for the full hour, as if said hour was worked.

This provision shall apply to all individuals who either (a) work their entire scheduled work

week or (b) are on any leave authorized under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and/or

Rules and Regulations of the County.

For purposes of this section, authorized leave shall include but not be limited to the

following:

(a) Sick Leave

(b)

Injury Leave

(c) Annual Leave

(d) Vacation Leave

(e) Holiday and/or compensatory time off

(f)

Bereavement/pallbearer Leave

(g) Military Leave

(h) Maternity Leave

(i)

(j)

Educational/seminar Leave

Any Other authorized and/or excused absences

-18-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

An employee who does not meet either of the two above criteria shall then be entitled

to overtime for all hours worked in excess of his scheduled work week.

For purposes of computing overtime, lunch periods and break periods shall be treated

as time actually worked.

Section C

Call Back Pay

Any  employee  who  is  called  back  to  work  at  a  time  other  than  his/her  regularly

scheduled hours of work/shift shall be granted a minimum of four (4) hours compensation at

one and one-half (1½) times his/her regular rate of pay regardless of time actually worked.

Section C

Portal-to-Portal Pay

An affected employee shall be compensated from the time he/she reasonably leaves

his/her residence and he/she shall continue to be compensated until said employee returns

to his/her residence, unless the said employee is given at least eight hours prior notice of

scheduled overtime.

Overtime hours contiguous to regularly scheduled hours of work/shift shall not be

subject to portal-to-portal pay.

Portal-to-portal pay shall not apply if an employee is assigned to a full eight hour shift

other than his/her regularly scheduled hours of work/shift.

-19-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 14

WAGES AND PAY PLAN

Section A

The County and the Union recognize and agree that the wage and pay plan provided

in  this  Article  shall  constitute  the  official  pay  plan  governing  all  persons  employed  in

classifications included in this bargaining unit.  

Section B

Individuals hired into a position included in this unit shall assume the first step in the

grade  to  which  that  position  is  assigned.    Upon  successful  completion  of  a  six-month

probationary period, the employee’s pay step shall be adjusted upward one step.  At the

conclusion of one year of service in grade and upon the annual anniversary, the employee will

be advanced two (2) pay steps until such time as the employee has reached the maximum pay

step in the grade to which he/she is assigned.  Such adjustments are, however, subject to

satisfactory performance.

Section C

When an employee is promoted to a position assigned to a higher grade, his/her wage

rate shall be adjusted to the minimum pay step in the higher grade.  If the employee’s current

pay step exceeds the minimum pay step in the higher grade, the employee’s wage rate shall

be increased by two (2) steps provided it does not exceed the maximum of the new grade.

The employee shall then be eligible for step increases as provided in Section B of this Article.

-20-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

Section D

When an employee is demoted to a position assigned to a lower grade, his/her pay

step shall be decreased by three (3) pay steps provided that the decrease is not below the

minimum of the new grade.  If the adjustment would place the employee’s pay step below the

minimum step for the lower grade, the employee will assume the first step in the lower grade.

Section E

Individuals employed by the Department of Port Everglades at the time of ratification

of this contract, will assume their proper grade and pay step and will be eligible for step

adjustments as provided in Section B of this Article.   If an employee’s pay step assignment

exceeds the highest pay step for that grade to which his/her position is assigned, the wage

rate and pay step shall not be reduced, however, the employee shall not be eligible for pay

step increases.

Section F

1.  Fiscal Year 2000/2001

Effective the first full pay period in October  2000, all pay grades, pay steps and wage

rates will be adjusted upward five percent (5%) as reflected in Appendix A1.  

2.  Fiscal Year 2001/2002

          Effective the first full pay period in October 2001, all pay grades, pay steps and wage

rates of pay will be adjusted upward five percent (5%) as reflected in Appendix A2.  

3.

Fiscal Year 2002/2003 

Effective the first full pay period in October 2002, all pay grades, pay steps and wage

rates will be adjusted upward three percent (3%) as reflected in Appendix A3.   

Section G

-21-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

In addition to the straight time base hourly rate, bargaining unit employees will be paid

a shift differential of fifteen cents ($0.15) per hour for hours actually worked on the third shift

and thirty cents ($0.30) per hour for hours worked on the first shift.  Employees will receive the

shift differential if they work a full eight (8) hours on first shift.  For purposes of this article, shifts

shall be defined as:

     Second Shift: All work shifts which begin between 4:00 a.m. and 11.59 a.m.

     Third Shift: All work shifts which begin between 12:00 noon and 7:59 p.m.

     First Shift: All work shifts which begin between 8:00 p.m. and 3:59 a.m.

Section H

Effective at the end of the last pay period in Calendar Year 2000, all employer     

contributions to any deferred compensation plan for any and all employees covered by this

Agreement shall cease. 

No later than the end of Calendar Year 2000, all bargaining unit employees who

participated in Deferred Compensation and received employer matching contributions as of

December 31, 1999, and are continuously employed in a bargaining unit position through the

signing of this Agreement or deceased during Calendar Year 2000,  shall receive a one-time,

gross lump sum payment, not part of base salary, in the amount of Two Thousand and five

hundred dollars ($2,500), less any applicable taxes.  

No later than October 31, 2001, all bargaining unit employees who participated in

Deferred Compensation and received employer matching contributions as of December 31,

1999, and are continuously employed in a bargaining unit position through October 1, 2001

or deceased during Calendar Year 2000, shall receive a one-time, gross lump sum payment,

not part of base salary, in the amount of Two Thousand and five hundred dollars ($2,500), less

-22-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

any applicable taxes. 

-23-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

PAY GRADE ASSIGNMENTS

JOB TITLE

Receptionist 

Filing Clerk

Engineering File Clerk

Clerk Typist

Engineering Documentation Clerk 

Marketing & Sales Clerk

General Administration Clerk

Documentation Coordinator

Billing Clerk I

Dispatcher              

Billing Clerk II

Contract Compliance Coordinator

Computer Operator

Linehandler

Statistical Controller

Harbormaster Office Specialist

Computer Data Controller

Drafter

Associate Wharfinger

Security Officer

GRADE

2GW

2GW

3GW

4GW

5GW

5GW

6GW

6GW

7GW

7GW

9GW

9GW

9GW

 10GW

 12GW

 12GW

 12GW

 13GW

 13GW

 13GW

-24-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

PAY GRADE ASSIGNMENTS

JOB TITLE

FTZ Warehouse Assistant

Surveyor

Corporate Communications Specialist 

Marketing & Sales Specialist

Public Relations Specialist

Chief Linehandler

Secretary

Payroll Data Specialist

Secretary/Accounts Specialist

Billing Controller

Bookkeeper

Computer Specialist

End-User Support Specialist

Sergeant, Security Officer

Duty Harbormaster

GRADE

 13GW

 13GW

 14GW

 14GW

 14GW

 14GW

 14GW

 15GW

 15GW

 16GW

 16GW

 17GW

 17GW

 17GW

 22GW

-25-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

-26-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

-27-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

-28-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 15

HOLIDAYS

Section A

The following holidays will be observed as holidays for County employees of this Bargaining

Unit:

New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday
Washington's Birthday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day

Veteran's Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day After Thanksgiving
1/2 Day Christmas Eve

Christmas Day

1/2 Day New Year's Eve

Any holiday adopted by the Department of Port Everglades shall be incorporated by reference

as a holiday with respect to the employees covered by this Agreement.

Section B

In the event that any of the aforementioned holidays fall within an employee's regular work

week, the employee shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay and shall receive the day off.

Section C

In the event that a holiday(s) falls outside the employee's work week, and that employee's work week

is  not  Monday  through  Friday,  the  employee  shall  receive  the  equivalent  of  that  holiday(s)  as

compensatory time and/or days off.  Said compensatory time and/or days(s) off for the holiday(s)

must be requested by the employee within sixty (60) days from the date of the holiday(s).  In the event

that the employee requests the compensatory time and/or days off but is denied said time and/or

day(s) off, the employee shall, at his option either receive compensation in lieu of the compensatory

time and/or day(s) off or designate another compensatory day and/or time off.  Said request shall not

be  unreasonably  denied  by  the  County.    In  the  event  that  the  employee  fails  to  request  his

-29-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

compensatory time and/or day(s) within sixty (60) days from the date of the holiday, then the County

shall have the right to designate the equivalent day(s) and/or time off on behalf of the employee.

Section D

If a holiday(s) falls on a weekend for employees who are regularly scheduled to work Monday

through Friday, said employee shall receive the Monday following the weekend or the last working

day prior to the holiday to replace that holiday.  The Director of Administration of Port Everglades

shall designate the day to be taken off in lieu of said holiday.

Whenever a holiday listed in this Article falls on a Saturday or Sunday, and the Director of

Administration designates a Friday or Monday as the holiday that designated day will apply only for

employees working Monday through Friday schedules.  For all other employees only, the actual

holiday will be applicable for purposes of this Article.

In no case will any employee be entitled to consider both the actual and the designated holiday

as a "holiday" for the purposes of compensation and time off in the application of this Article.

Section E

Any employee who works on a designated holiday shall receive eight (8) hours holiday pay

plus one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular rate of pay for all hours worked on the holiday.

Section F

Employees will be granted sixteen (16) hours paid leave per calendar year to be utilized for

personal business.  Notice to the employee's supervisor forty-eight (48) hours in advance shall be

required to take such time off, except in the event of a personal emergency.

-30-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 16

VACATION

Each regular employee shall be entitled to vacation with pay based on the schedule  below:

Ten (10) working days each year for the first four (4) years of employment;

Fifteen (15) working days each year for years five (5) through nine (9);

Twenty (20) days each year for years ten (10) and over.

Employees will be entitled to the scheduled vacation above or pay therefore, in event of

resignation or termination, only after completion of twelve (12) months of continuous service.  An

employee may be permitted to take five (5) days of vacation with pay after completion of six (6)

months continuous service upon the Department Director's approval but if the employee's service is

terminated for any reason before twelve (12) calendar months, the amount paid for vacation will be

deducted from the employee's final check.  Vacations are earned on the basis of length of service

with the County.

Vacation  must  be  taken  in  the  calendar  year  in  which  due.    If  the  first  anniversary  of

employment does not permit sufficient time to take such vacation before the end of the year, all, or

part, of the vacation may be deferred, but must be taken before January 31st of the next calendar

year.  After the first anniversary of employment, an employee will become entitled to his/her next

vacation year and the vacation year will coincide with the calendar year thereafter.  Any vacation not

taken in the year in which due shall be forfeited unless postponed at the Port Director's request in

which case the employee will be permitted to take such vacation the next calendar year, provided

such vacation is taken before March 31st, or at the County's or employees option, the employee may

receive cash payment in lieu of accrued vacation hours.  The Authority agrees to give employees at

least thirty (30) days notice before canceling scheduled vacation except for emergencies.  The

-31-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

employees in this unit must submit a written request for vacation dates prior to March 1 of each

calendar year.  Once approved by the County, any changes in the employee's vacation schedule must

be approved by his/her Division Head with the understanding that any requested changes will not be

unreasonably withheld.

In the calendar years in which his/her fourth and ninth employment anniversaries fall, an

employee may schedule an additional week of vacation with pay beginning January 1st of that year

but if the employee resigns or is terminated prior to his/her anniversary date, the additional vacation

pay will be deducted from the employee's final check.  When an employee resigns, he/she will be

paid for any unused vacation in the previous year plus any vacation pay earned in the current calendar

year.  Each employee entitled to a vacation may indicate his/her preferred vacation time and such

request will be considered in continuous service order and granted when practicable but it is

understood that efficient operation of the Department shall be the first consideration and the County

shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis.

All pay due an employee while on vacation will be made available to the employee on the last

working day preceding the vacation leave, provided the employee has submitted a written request

for such pay, and such written request has been received by the Finance Division at Port Everglades

no less than fourteen (14) days prior to the date such pay is desired.

An employee's vacation pay will be based on the employee's bi-weekly pay rate in effect at

the end of the payroll period completed just prior to the beginning of vacation.  A working day for

vacation purposes will be eight (8) hours.

In the event that an employee is sick during his/her scheduled vacation those sick days during

said vacation shall be charged to his/her sick leave time and his/her vacation shall be extended for

the same number of days.

-32-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 17

SICK LEAVE

Employees, including probationary employees, will earn credit of eight (8) hours of sick pay

for each month of service.  Such credit will be accumulated from the date of employment and shall

be unlimited.  An employee who does not use sick leave for a period of six (6) consecutive months

will have one (1) bonus day added to his vacation leave.

Employees may use sick leave credit for personal illness or injury or illness occurring in the

immediate  family  as  defined  in  Article  29  providing  that  the  employee  notifies  his/her

division/department director on the first day of absence for such illness or injury and states the reason

for the absence.

When an employee is disabled because of an occupational injury or illness incurred while

performing  assigned  duties  for  the  Authority  for  which  he  is  eligible  to  receive  Workers'

Compensation payments, he/she will receive a supplementary salary payment during the time such

Workers' Compensation is paid in an amount equal to the difference between the maximum Workers'

Compensation benefit payable and sixty percent (60%) of the employee's base salary paid in the

period just prior to the disability for a maximum of ninety (90) working days.

In addition, such employee may elect to receive additional supplementary salary payments

during the time such Workers' Compensation is paid which will provide him/her with approximately

the same net pay as he/she had received prior to the disability.  If he/she so elects sick leave credits

in  hours  accumulated  as  of  the  beginning  date  of  the  disability  will  be  used  to  provide  such

supplement.  The credits will be valued according to the employee's daily rate of pay at the time 

-33-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

the disability began and the amount of the supplement will be charged against such credits when paid

bi-weekly.

When an employee covered by this Agreement who has no accumulated sick leave credits

to use to supplement workers' compensation payments or if an employee has no accumulated sick

leave  credits  and  suffers  a  non  job  related  illness  or  injury,  other  employees  covered  by  this

Agreement may, if they wish, transfer a specified portion of their accumulated sick leave credits to

the credit of the disabled employee.  Such transfer of such sick leave credits shall be on a form

provided by the Authority.

Probationary employees earn credits for illness or injury leave from the date of employment

and such leave credits can be used during the probationary period.  A permanent employee who is

absent from work and disabled because of a job related injury or a job related illness will continue to

accrue sick leave hours during such period of absence.

An employee will be paid thirty percent (30%) of the value of the sick leave accumulated to

his/her credit at the time of separation, provided the employee leaves employment in good standing.

If an employee retires under the provisions of the Florida Retirement System he/she will be paid one

hundred percent (100%) of the value of the sick leave accumulated to his/her credit at time of

separation.  Upon death of employee one hundred percent (100%) of the value of accumulated sick

leave will be paid to the employee's beneficiary as named on the employee's group insurance policy.

The maximum pay out for this Article shall be one hundred forty (140) days of sick leave credit.

-34-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

Section A

ARTICLE 18

LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

Leaves of absence without pay, beyond the vacation to which an employee is entitled, may

be granted for good and sufficient reason in the opinion of the Port Director or his designee.  Efficient

operation shall be the first consideration for approval of such leave.  The term of the leave of absence

shall be in writing and the leave will not be for more than six (6) months but the term may be extended

for one (1) additional six (6) month period at the option of the Port Director or his designee.

For purposes of Maternity Leaves of Absence without pay, the leave of absence, beyond the

vacation to which and employee is entitled, will be granted.  However, this section shall not exclude

any benefits to which employees are entitled for Maternity purposes under any other benefits provided

for by the County.

Section B

Such  leave,  including  any  extension,  shall  not  affect  an  employee's  continuous  service

providing there has been no impairment of his/her ability to perform the available work but if an

employee fails to return to work within the term of leave, the employee's continuous service shall be

broken and employment shall be terminated.

Section C

At the end of the leave of absence, an employee will be entitled to reinstatement at a rate of

pay not less than that which he/she received immediately prior to his/her leave of absence.  The

employee, upon return, shall return to his/her old job or the equivalent.

Section D

During the leave of absence, the employee will not be entitled to accumulate any sick leave

-35-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

or annual leave (vacation).  In addition, the employee will not be eligible for any holiday pay during

such leave.

Section E

No leave of absence, with or without pay, will be granted to permit an employee to work at

another job or conduct a business.

Section F

An employee who is granted an unpaid leave of absence may keep the insurance coverage

on himself/herself and his/her dependents in effect by paying the entire premium for such coverage

without contribution by the County in advance each month during the period of such leave.

-36-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 19

PROBATION

When an employee is hired by the County, said employee shall be on probationary status for

the first one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of employment.  After completion of said period the

employee shall attain a permanent employee status.

During an employee's probationary status, the County may terminate said employee for any

reason.  Said action shall not be subject to appeal by the employee and/or the Federation.

In the event that an employee employed by the County fills a vacancy or a new position in any

other job classification with the Department of Port Everglades and the County determines, within the

probationary period, that the employee has not satisfactorily performed that job, or the employee,

within the probationary period, determines that he/she no longer desires to remain in that position,

the  employee  automatically  shall  return  to  his  previous  position  with  the  Department  of  Port

Everglades with no loss of seniority and/or other fringe benefits.

-37-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 20

RULES AND REGULATIONS

The  Federation  recognizes  the  right  of  the  County  to  establish  reasonable  rules  and

regulations, including rules and regulations regarding drug and alcohol abuse, for the safe and

efficient conduct of County business and reasonable penalties for violation of such rules provided

said rules and regulations do not conflict with any provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement

or any terms and conditions of employment.  Established rules, regulations and penalties shall be

posted within the department/division.  Changes in present rules shall not become effective until they

have been posted for seven (7) calendar days at the time of posting and a copy has been directed

to the Federation by mail.

-38-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 21

TERMINATION

An employee who is terminated for any reason shall receive all pay due for work performed

to the effective date and hour of termination.  Said employee shall also be paid for any unused

vacation and accrued vacation earned, if applicable.

The County agrees that simultaneous with the termination of any employee, a copy of the

written notice of termination shall be directed by mail to the Federation.

When in its sole judgment, the County decides to issue an invitation for contractors to bid to

provide a function presently performed by bargaining unit employees, and that action could displace

bargaining unit employees, management shall notify the Union at least 30 days prior to the date that

the invitation to bid is issued.  The Union shall be provided with all pertinent material provided to

outside  contractors.    The  Union  shall  have  the  right  to  meet  with  management  to  discuss  the

proposed action, and the Union shall have the right to submit alternate proposals for management

review.  Through the meetings, the parties shall attempt to limit the adverse impact that any possible

contracting of services might cause.  The meetings shall not preclude the Authority from proceeding

with the process of issuing invitations to bid or awarding of bids, nor shall the meetings cause delay

in the issuance of invitations to bid, or the awarding of bids.

In the event that an employee no longer is employed by the County or any other government

entity due to abolishment of the Department of Port Everglades, a division, and/or job classification

and/or an employee who is laid off in excess of twelve (12) months and is no longer subject to being

recalled by the County, said employee, in addition to any other benefits to which that employee may

be entitled under the Collective Bargaining Agreement and Rules and Regulations of the County, shall

receive termination pay according to the following schedule.

-39-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

(a)  1 to 2 years service
       3 to 5 years service
       6 to 10 years service -
       In excess of 10 years service  -  

-
-
6 weeks

2 weeks
4 weeks

10 weeks

Employees with service in excess of ten years who are entitled to benefits under this Article

shall receive one (1) additional week of salary for each five (5) years of completed service.

(b)  One (1) week's pay shall be calculated by multiplying the employee's regular rate of      
 pay at the time of termination by forty (40) hours.

(c)   Payment will be made in a lump sum.

(d)  Payment will not duplicate any similar benefit provided by any municipality or any       
Federal, State, or other governmental agency except that such payment will not bar
       payment of unemployment compensation.

(e)  Payment will not be made to any one who retires under the Florida Retirement System.

-40-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 22

LAYOFF AND RECALL

Prior to any proposed reduction in work force, furlough, layoff, abolishment of the Department

of Port Everglades, a division or job classification the County shall, as soon as practicable, notify the

Union and the parties shall meet in order to explore alternatives.

In the event of a reduction in force, furlough, layoff, abolishment of the Department of Port

Everglades, division or job classification, the bargaining unit employee with the least seniority as

defined in Article 23, shall be the first to be affected and said reduction in force, furlough, layoff,

abolishment of the Department of Port Everglades, division or job classification shall continue in the

same order thereafter.  Any employee who is affected by the above shall have the option of displacing

any junior employee in an equal or lower job classification employed by the Department provided the

employee is able to perform the duties of that job classification.  Any employee whose employment

is affected by any of the circumstances contained above, shall, for a one (1) year period, have the

right to fill any subsequent vacancy in the work force provided he/she has the ability to perform the

duties of that position.  The County shall notify, by certified mail, any affected employee of any

vacancy.

-41-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 23

SENIORITY

Seniority shall be defined as continuous length of service with the Department.  However,

nothing herein shall affect an employee's original date of hire in the event that the employee leaves

employment with the Department and returns to employment within a period of six (6) months.

-42-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

Section A

ARTICLE 24

UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT

The County shall provide uniforms for those employees whose job assignments require them

to be in uniform.  The employees shall wear the uniform when on duty and shall maintain a suitable

appearance at all times.

Section B

The County agrees to provide all tools and equipment that are necessary for an employee to

fulfill all his/her work assignments.

Section C

The County shall compensate all employees who are provided uniforms a clothing allowance

in the amount of $300.00 per year commencing 1/1/90.

-43-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 25

UNION DEDUCTIONS

Union deductions shall be made in accordance with forms provided by the Federation and

executed and authorized by the employee authorizing said deductions.  There shall be no charge

made by the County for these deductions.  The exact amount of monies to be deducted for each

employee shall be provided by the Federation to the County.  Any changes in the amounts to be

deducted shall be given to the County thirty (30) days in advance.  These monies, along with a list of

each employee's name and monthly base wage, shall be transmitted to the Federation within thirty

(30) days after the monthly deductions.

The Federation shall indemnify the County and hold the County harmless against any and all

suits, claims, demands and liabilities which arise out of or by reason of any action taken by the

County to comply or attempt to comply with the provisions of this Article.

-44-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 26

USE OF PAYROLL UNIT FOR DISTRIBUTION OF UNION MATERIAL

 

Section A

The County agrees to permit the Union to use the Finance Division of Port Everglades for

distribution of written material, provided that such material will only be disseminated on the normal

payday.  The Union shall notify and provide the material to be distributed to the Director of Finance

at Port Everglades no later than 11:00 a.m., two (2) days preceding the normal payday.

Section B

It is understood by both parties that the County shall incur no liability with respect to any action

that may or may not be taken by any individual, group or corporation as a result of the distribution of

such material.

-45-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 27

JURY DUTY

Employees who are called for jury duty or who are subpoenaed as witnesses before any court

of competent jurisdiction or administrative tribunal shall, upon submission of proper proof, be paid

straight time compensation for such time as they are actually detained from their regular shift, less

any fee received.

If an employee assigned to a first or third shift, as defined in Article 14, Section G, is called

for  jury  duty  or  is  subpoenaed  as  a  witness  before  any  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  or

administrative tribunal, said employee shall be assigned to the second shift, as defined in Article 14,

Section G, for any and all days that he/she is assigned to said duty.  The two week notice of change

of work schedule, as provided for in Article 12, shall be waived.

-46-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 28

MILITARY LEAVE

The County recognizes the right and duty of its employees to serve in units of the U.S. Armed

Forces,  reserves,  and  the  Florida  National  Guard.    As  such,  military  leave  will  be  granted  in

accordance with applicable Federal and/or State Statutes.

-47-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 29

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

Any  employee  who  suffers  the  death  of  an  immediate  family  member  shall  be  granted

bereavement leave in the following manner:

(a)  If the death occurs within the State of Florida - four
     (4) compensated working days.

(b)  If the death occurs outside the State of Florida - five
     (5) compensated working days.

For purposes of this section an immediate family member shall be mother; father; sister;

brother; grandmother; grandfather; spouse; son; daughter; grandchildren; mother-in-law; father-in-law;

daughter-in-law; son-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; grandparents of employee's spouse and any

other relative residing in the employee's household.

-48-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 30

PALLBEARER

In the event that an employee is requested to serve as an unpaid pallbearer, the employee

may do so without loss of pay or fringe benefits for a maximum of two (2) days per calendar year.

This  provision  shall  not  apply  to  any  employee  eligible  for  leave  as  provided  in  Article  29,

Bereavement Leave.

-49-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

Section A

ARTICLE 31

EDUCATIONAL REIMBURSEMENTS

Employees  covered  by  this  Agreement  may  participate  in  the  County's  Educational

Reimbursement  Program  as  established  by  Section  26-3  of  the  Broward  County  Code  of

Ordinances.  The eligibility requirements and the amount, type and condition precedent to obtaining

reimbursement, will be established by the County.

Section B

To improve the quality of personal service rendered to the public and to aid employees in

equipping themselves for advancement, any permanent full-time employee may request Educational

Leave for the purpose of taking occupationally related courses or training.  The following procedures

shall apply:

A.

The  immediate  supervisor  shall  determine  the  feasibility  of  excusing  the

employee from work by examining the work schedule and arranging for adequate

coverage  and/or  redistribution  of  work  assignments  during  the  employee's

absence.

B.

The Division Director or designated Section Head shall then determine whether

the courses or training are occupationally related and whether leave shall be

granted with full pay subject to review by the Personnel Director if denied.

C.

Request for educational leave must have final approval in advance by the Human

Resources Director and shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) working days or

one hundred sixty (160) work hours in any one (1) calendar year per employee,

except as may be approved by the County Administrator.

-50-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

D.

An employee will be advised as whether his/her request is approved or denied

within thirty (30) calendar days of the date on which the employee's written

request is received by the Human Resources Division.  Such requests shall not

be unreasonably denied.

-51-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

Section A

ARTICLE 32

PERSONAL PROPERTY DAMAGE

Employees whose personal property is damaged under certain conditions while working are

to be reimbursed for the cost of repairing the damages or for replacement if repairs cannot be made.

Section B

The County will reimburse the employee if:

a)  The damage occurred while in the performance of County business on County property
     or elsewhere if under the direction of the employee's supervisor.

b)  The damage occurred during the employee's working hours.

c) The damage was caused by an object, piece of equipment, material or another     
employee where all persons involved were legitimately carrying out the duties of their        jobs.

d)  The employee was wearing protective equipment where prescribed for a given job.

Section C

The County will not reimburse the employee if:

a)  During lunch, break and refreshment period.

b)  While breaking normal rules of conduct expected in a business environment or violating
     safety rules.

Section D

The claim must be presented on a prescribed form to the Director of Administration at Port

Everglades.  The form must be approved by the employee's supervisor and department head and

submitted within two (2) working days after damage occurs.  A witness to the accident should be

included whenever possible.

-52-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 33

POLITICAL ACTIVITY

There shall be no restrictions placed on employees with regard to political activity.  Employees

may hold membership in or support any political party, run for political office, vote as they choose,

express their opinions and wishes on political issues and candidates, maintain partisan neutrality and

attend political functions as long as these activities do not take place during the employees working

hours.

-53-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 34

STRIKES, SLOWDOWNS

The Federation agrees that there shall be no strikes or slowdowns of any kind whatsoever by

employees of this bargaining unit.

The County agrees that there shall be no lockout of the employees for any reason.

-54-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 35

VOTING TIME

Employees will be granted reasonable time up to one hour (1) voting time for any County,

State or Federal election.

-55-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 36

SUCCESSOR CLAUSE

The terms of this Agreement shall be binding on any and all successors without modification

or alteration in any respect in the event of annexation, change of management, consolidation, merger

or sale.

-56-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 37

SAVINGS CLAUSE

If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of such provision shall be rendered or

declared invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining parts or portions of this

Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  In the event of the foregoing, the parties agree to

renegotiate a replacement provision.

Any benefit which accrued to any employee prior to the effective date of this Agreement, which

has been approved by the Port Director and which is not specifically mentioned in this Agreement

shall continue.

-57-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 38

TOTALITY OF AGREEMENT

The County and the Federation recognize and agree that the provisions contained herein

represent the totality of the agreement between the parties.  It is understood and agreed, however,

that the parties may by voluntary mutual consent, modify or add to this Agreement at any time during

its term.

-58-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 39

GROUP INSURANCE

Effective January 1, 2001, all employees covered by this Agreement shall receive  the

same group insurance benefits as provided to other County employees in accordance with the

County Benefit Program.  

-59-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 40

LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN

The County shall continue to provide a long-term disability plan for employees covered by

this agreement.

Pending availability and cost, the plan or a successor plan shall be continued throughout

the duration of this collective bargaining agreement.  Prior to any discontinuation of the plan, the

parties shall meet to discuss the impact upon bargaining unit employees.

-60-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 41

TERM OF AGREEMENT

The provisions of this agreement are for the fiscal years 2000/01, 2001/02, and 2002/03

and shall be effective upon ratification of the Union membership and approval of the Board of

County Commissioners for Broward County, Florida except as otherwise provided in the

agreement, and shall continue in force thereafter, through September 30, 2003.  It shall

automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall notify the other, in

writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date, that it desires to terminate or modify

this agreement.  In the event that such notice is given, negotiations shall begin not later than thirty

(30) days prior to the anniversary date.

-61-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

SIGNATURE PAGE

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed and

signed by their duly authorized representatives, as of this        day of                             , 200_.

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES,

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

A DIVISION THE NATIONAL     

BY ITS BOARD OF COUNTY

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE

COMMISSIONERS

EMPLOYEES (AFL-CIO)

By___________________________
  DIVISION PRESIDENT 

By______________________________
   CHAIRPERSON

By___________________________
  BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE

By______________________________
  COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR

By__________________________________
  WITNESS

By______________________________
  WITNESS

By___________________________
  WITNESS

By______________________________
  WITNESS

-62-

PORT NON-SUPERVISORY

           APPENDIX A1
(Effective October 2000)

STEPS

GRADE
1GW

2GW

3GW

4GW

5GW

6GW

7GW

8GW

9GW

10GW

11GW

12GW

13GW

14GW

15GW

16GW

17GW

18GW

19GW

20GW

21GW

22GW

          A

           B

          C

          D

         E

         F

         G

         H

         I

9.01

9.15

9.37

9.56

9.74

9.94

10.12

10.35

10.53

9.37

9.56

9.74

9.94

10.12

10.35

10.53

10.75

10.97

9.74

9.94

10.12

10.35

10.53

10.75

10.97

11.19

11.44

10.12

10.35

10.53

10.75

10.97

11.19

11.44

11.67

11.88

10.53

10.75

10.97

11.19

11.44

11.67

11.88

12.10

12.34

10.97

11.19

11.44

11.67

11.88

12.10

12.34

12.61

12.84

11.44

11.67

11.88

12.10

12.34

12.61

12.84

13.10

13.35

11.88

12.10

12.34

12.61

12.84

13.10

13.35

13.64

13.90

12.34

12.61

12.84

13.10

13.35

13.64

13.90

14.18

14.48

12.84

13.10

13.35

13.64

13.90

14.18

14.48

14.75

15.04

13.35

13.64

13.90

14.18

14.48

14.75

15.04

15.36

15.69

13.90

14.18

14.48

14.75

15.04

15.36

15.69

15.98

16.30

14.48

14.75

15.04

15.36

15.69

15.98

16.30

16.62

16.97

15.04

15.36

15.69

15.98

16.30

16.62

16.97

17.28

17.64

15.69

15.98

16.30

16.62

16.97

17.28

17.64

17.98

18.37

16.30

16.62

16.97

17.28

17.64

17.98

18.37

18.71

19.10

16.97

17.28

17.64

17.98

18.37

18.71

19.10

19.47

19.85

17.64

17.98

18.37

18.71

19.10

19.47

19.85

20.26

20.65

18.37

18.71

19.10

19.47

19.85

20.26

20.65

21.08

21.50

19.10

19.47

19.85

20.26

20.65

21.08

21.50

21.90

22.39

19.85

20.26

20.65

21.08

21.50

21.90

22.39

22.83

23.29

20.65

21.08

21.50

21.90

22.39

22.83

23.29

23.75

24.19

           APPENDIX A2
   (Effective October 2001)

STEPS

GRADE
1GW

2GW

3GW

4GW

5GW

6GW

7GW

8GW

9GW

10GW

11GW

12GW

13GW

14GW

15GW

16GW

17GW

18GW

19GW

20GW

21GW

22GW

          A

          B

          C

         D

        E

        F

        G

         H

        I

9.46

9.60

9.83

10.04

10.22

10.44

10.62

10.87

11.06

9.83

10.04

10.22

10.44

10.62

10.87

11.06

11.29

11.52

10.22

10.44

10.62

10.87

11.06

11.29

11.52

11.75

12.01

10.62

10.87

11.06

11.29

11.52

11.75

12.01

12.25

12.47

11.06

11.29

11.52

11.75

12.01

12.25

12.47

12.70

12.96

11.52

11.75

12.01

12.25

12.47

12.70

12.96

13.24

13.48

12.01

12.25

12.47

12.70

12.96

13.24

13.48

13.76

14.01

12.47

12.70

12.96

13.24

13.48

13.76

14.01

14.32

14.60

12.96

13.24

13.48

13.76

14.01

14.32

14.60

14.89

15.21

13.48

13.76

14.01

14.32

14.60

14.89

15.21

15.49

15.79

14.01

14.32

14.60

14.89

15.21

15.49

15.79

16.13

16.47

14.60

14.89

15.21

15.49

15.79

16.13

16.47

16.77

17.11

15.21

15.49

15.79

16.13

16.47

16.77

17.11

17.45

17.82

15.79

16.13

16.47

16.77

17.11

17.45

17.82

18.15

18.52

16.47

16.77

17.11

17.45

17.82

18.15

18.52

18.88

19.29

17.11

17.45

17.82

18.15

18.52

18.88

19.29

19.64

20.06

17.82

18.15

18.52

18.88

19.29

19.64

20.06

20.44

20.85

18.52

18.88

19.29

19.64

20.06

20.44

20.85

21.27

21.68

19.29

19.64

20.06

20.44

20.85

21.27

21.68

22.13

22.57

20.06

20.44

20.85

21.27

21.68

22.13

22.57

23.00

23.51

20.85

21.27

21.68

22.13

22.57

23.00

23.51

23.97

24.46

21.68

22.13

22.57

23.00

23.51

23.97

24.46

24.94

25.40

           APPENDIX A3
   (Effective October 2002)

STEPS

GRADE
1GW

2GW

3GW

4GW

5GW

6GW

7GW

8GW

9GW

10GW

11GW

12GW

13GW

14GW

15GW

16GW

17GW

18GW

19GW

20GW

21GW

22GW

         A

         B

         C

        D

        E

         F

         G

         H

         I

9.74

9.89

10.13

10.34

10.53

10.75

10.94

11.19

11.39

10.13

10.34

10.53

10.75

10.94

11.19

11.39

11.63

11.87

10.53

10.75

10.94

11.19

11.39

11.63

11.87

12.11

12.37

10.94

11.19

11.39

11.63

11.87

12.11

12.37

12.62

12.85

11.39

11.63

11.87

12.11

12.37

12.62

12.85

13.08

13.35

11.87

12.11

12.37

12.62

12.85

13.08

13.35

13.63

13.88

12.37

12.62

12.85

13.08

13.35

13.63

13.88

14.17

14.44

12.85

13.08

13.35

13.63

13.88

14.17

14.44

14.75

15.04

13.35

13.63

13.88

14.17

14.44

14.75

15.04

15.34

15.66

13.88

14.17

14.44

14.75

15.04

15.34

15.66

15.95

16.26

14.44

14.75

15.04

15.34

15.66

15.95

16.26

16.61

16.96

15.04

15.34

15.66

15.95

16.26

16.61

16.96

17.28

17.63

15.66

15.95

16.26

16.61

16.96

17.28

17.63

17.98

18.35

16.26

16.61

16.96

17.28

17.63

17.98

18.35

18.69

19.08

16.96

17.28

17.63

17.98

18.35

18.69

19.08

19.44

19.87

17.63

17.98

18.35

18.69

19.08

19.44

19.87

20.23

20.66

18.35

18.69

19.08

19.44

19.87

20.23

20.66

21.06

21.47

19.08

19.44

19.87

20.23

20.66

21.06

21.47

21.91

22.34

19.87

20.23

20.66

21.06

21.47

21.91

22.34

22.80

23.25

20.66

21.06

21.47

21.91

22.34

22.80

23.25

23.69

24.21

21.47

21.91

22.34

22.80

23.25

23.69

24.21

24.69

25.19

22.34

22.80

23.25

23.69

24.21

24.69

25.19

25.69

26.17

