Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

24

Language English

Country United States

State

FL

Union National Federation of Public and Private Employees (AFL-CIO)

Local

"Port Supervisory"

Multiple occupations represented

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Broward County Board of Commissioners
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2000

Source

http://www.broward.org/hui04102.pdf

Original_format PDF (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

BETWEEN 

BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

-AND-

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, 

A DIVISION OF THE NATIONAL FEDERATION 

OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EMPLOYEES (AFL - CIO)

SUPERVISORY UNIT

EFFECTIVE  FISCAL YEAR 98/99 THROUGH 99/00 

The parties hereby agree to enter into a two (2) year Collective Bargaining

Agreement covering the period from October 1, 1998 through September 30, 2000 and
incorporates by reference all provisions of the previous Agreement dated March 4, 1996,
unchanged, with the exception of a change to the following provision of Article 14, Wages
and Pay Plan:

Delete Old Section F 

Add New Section F

1.  Fiscal Year 1998/1999

a.

b.

Effective the first full pay period in October 1998, all pay grades, pay steps
and wage rates of pay will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as
reflected in Appendix A1.  

All bargaining unit employees employed in a bargaining unit position during
Fiscal Year 1998/1999 (October 1, 1998 through September 30, 1999) and
continuously employed in a bargaining unit position through the signing of
this agreement or deceased between Fiscal Year 1998/1999 and the
signing of this Agreement, shall receive the five (5) percent pay adjustment
to base described in paragraph 1A above, prospectively not  to exceed the
new maximum rate of the pay range.  Retroactive payment for this increase
shall be equal to  five (5) percent of  the employee’s wages as indicated on

PORT SUPERVISORY

his/her 1998  W-2 (IRS) Form (Box 3 - Social Security Wages).

2.  Fiscal Year 1999/2000

A.

B.

Effective the first full pay period in October 1999, all pay grades, pay steps
and wage rates will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as reflected in
Appendix A2. 

All bargaining unit employees employed in a  bargaining unit position during
Fiscal Year 1999/2000 (October 1, 1999 through September 30, 2000) and
continuously employed in a bargaining unit position through the signing of
this agreement or deceased between Fiscal Year 1999/2000 through the
signing of this Agreement, shall receive the five (5) percent pay adjustment
to base described in paragraph 2A above, prospectively not to exceed the
new  maximum rate of the pay range.  Retroactive payment for this increase 
shall be equal to  five (5) percent of  the employee’s wages as indicated on
his/her 1999  W-2 (IRS) Form (Box 3 - Social Security Wages). 

Subsequent to approval by the Broward County Commission, this Agreement shall be
effective for the period between October 1, 1998 through September 30, 2000.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed
and signed by their duly authorized representatives this ______ day of _____________,
2000.

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES,
A DIVISION THE NATIONAL     
FEDERATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
EMPLOYEES (AFL-CIO)

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA
BY ITS BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS

By___________________________

  DIVISION PRESIDENT 

          By_____________________________
   

                  CHAIRPERSON

By_______________________________           By_____________________________
           COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
  

BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE   

By___________________________

          By______________________________

  WITNESS

  

WITNESS

By___________________________

          By______________________________

  WITNESS

  

WITNESS

                     

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

AGREEMENT

-Between-

THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS 

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

-And-

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, 

A DIVISION OF THE NATIONAL FEDERATION 

OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EMPLOYEES (AFL - CIO)

SUPERVISORY UNIT

Effective FY 2000/2001, 2001/2002 and 2002/2003 

INDEX

ARTICLE 

SUBJECT

  

PAGE

Recognition 

Discrimination

    

1

2

    

Management Rights

    

            3

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

Grievance Procedure

Arbitration

Impasse Resolution

On-Site Representative

Bulletin Boards

Job Posting, Filling Vacancies
and New Positions

Working Out of Class

Safety Board

Work Week

Overtime

Wages and Pay Plan

 

Holidays

Vacation

Sick Leave

    

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

Leave of Absence Without Pay

Probation

 

   

    

4

8

            10

11

12

13

14

            15

   

   

   

   

   

16

17

18

25

28

31

33

35

-ii-

PORT SUPERVISORY

INDEX (CONTINUED) 

ARTICLE 

SUBJECT

  

PAGE

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

Rules and Regulations

Termination

Layoff and Recall

Seniority

Uniforms and Equipment

Union Deductions

 

 

Use of Payroll Unit For
Distribution of Union Material   

Jury Duty

Military Leave

Bereavement Leave

Pallbearer

 

Educational Reimbursements

Personal Property Damage

 

 

 

Political Activity

Strikes, Slowdowns

Voting Time

Successor Clause

Savings Clause

Totality of Agreement

Group Insurance 

   

   

  

   

   

 

 

 

   

   

 

   

   

   

   

   

36

37

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

50

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

   

   

   

   

   

   

-iii-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

40

Long Term Disability

   

59

INDEX (CONTINUED) 

ARTICLE 

SUBJECT

  

PAGE

41        

Term of Agreement        

   

Signature Page 

   

60

61

-iv-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 1

RECOGNITION

Broward County recognizes the Federation of Public Employees, a Division of the

National  Federation  of  Public  and  Private  Employees  AFL-CIO,  as  the  exclusive

representative for purposes of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours

of employment and other terms and conditions of employment in the following designated unit:

     Included:

All regular full and part-time non-professional exempt employees employed by the

Broward County Department of Port Everglades in the following classifications:  Community

Affairs  Representative,  Registered  Survey  Party  Chief,  Assistant  Harbormaster,  Senior

Accountant, Accountant, Manager, Passenger Trades Development and Special Projects,

Latin American Sales Manager, Wharfinger, Assistant Wharfinger, Maintenance Supervisor,

Assistant to the Director of Operations, Foreign Trade Zone Warehouse Manager, Port Crane

Engineer,  Assistant  Port  Crane  Engineer.    Any  employee  employed  in  any  other  job

classification mutually agreed to by the parties.

     Excluded:

All other County employees except those employees employed in any job classification

mutually agreed to by the parties.

Whenever used in this Agreement, the word "Employee" or "Employees" shall mean

any person or persons employed in the aforedescribed unit as defined by the Florida Public

Employees Relations Commission, Case No. RC-81-002, Certification #556, as amended,

Certification of Exclusive Bargaining Representative.

-1-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 2

DISCRIMINATION

The County and the Federation agree that the basic intent of this Agreement is to

provide a harmonious working relationship between the County and the Federation.  The

County and the Federation agree that all provisions of this Agreement shall be applied to all

employees covered by it and that the County and the Federation affirm their joint opposition

to  any  discriminatory  practices  in  connection  with  employment,  promotion  or  training,

remembering that the public law and public interest require no discrimination on account of

race, color, creed, handicap, national origin, age or sex.

Employees shall have the right to join the Federation to engage in lawful concerted

activities for the purpose of collective bargaining, to express and communicate any view,

grievance, complaint or opinion relative to conditions or compensation of public employment

or  its  betterment,  all  free  of  any  restraint,  coercion,  intimidation  or  reprisal  against  any

employee because of that employee's membership or lack of membership in the Federation

or by virtue of any employee-member holding office in the Federation.  This provision shall be

applied to all employees employed by the County and represented by the Federation.

-2-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 3

MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

It is understood that the County has the right to operate the department and divisions

of Port Everglades and this Agreement shall not be construed to limit in any way the right of

the County to manage and operate its business.

In order to fulfill this commitment and responsibility, management shall have the right,

subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement, to:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

Hire, promote and evaluate employees.

Discipline, demote, suspend or discharge employees for just cause.

Determine unilaterally the purpose of each department, division or operation.

Determine what reasonable work activities are performed.

Exercise control and discretion over the organization and operation of the
County.

Cause reductions in work force for legitimate reasons.

Set standards of service to be provided.

To formulate, change or modify rules, regulations and procedures provided it
is not contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.

-3-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 4

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Section A

A grievance shall be defined as any controversy or dispute arising between the parties

involving  questions  of  interpretation  or  application  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this

Agreement and other conditions of employment.  Having a desire to create and maintain labor

relations harmony between them, the parties hereto agree that they will promptly attempt to

adjust all complaints, disputes, controversies or other grievances arising between them

involving  questions  of  interpretation  or  application  of  the  terms  and  provisions  of  this

Agreement and other conditions of employment.

Section B

Thus, should differences or disputes arise between the parties to this Agreement or

between the employees covered herein and the County, other than cases of discharge and/or

suspension, the aggrieved party to this Agreement or employee, or employees, as the case

may be, shall use the following procedures:

Step 1.

In the event that an employee believes there is a basis for a grievance, said employee

shall  first  discuss  promptly  the  alleged  grievance  with  the  immediate  supervisor,  either

privately, or if said employee prefers, accompanied by the on-site Federation representative

within a reasonable period of time of the date of the occurrence of the event giving rise to the

grievance.  The supervisor shall then respond within five working days.

-4-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

     Step 2.

In the event the aggrieved employee and/or the Union is not satisfied with the decision

of the supervisor, the grievant and/or the on-site Federation representative shall present the

grievance in writing to the employee's division head within five (5) working days of the date

of the aforesaid decision.  Upon presentation of this written grievance to the division head,

and within five (5) working days thereafter, the division head, the employee and the on-site

Federation representative shall attempt to resolve the same dispute and, within five (5)

working days thereafter, the department head shall render a decision in writing to both the

employee and to the on-site Federation representative.

Step 3.

In the event the aggrieved employee and/or the Union is not satisfied with the written

answer to Step 2 above, the said grievance shall be presented within five (5) working days

after the written answer above to the Port Director, or his designee, who will, within five (5)

working days of the receipt of same, meet with a representative of the Federation in an

attempt to resolve the said grievance.  At this meeting, the employee and/or the on-site

Federation representative may also be present.  Within five (5) working days after this

meeting, the Port Director or his designee shall render a decision in writing.

Section C

    In the event an employee is discharged and/or suspended by the County, the aggrieved

party to this Agreement or employee or employees shall, within a reasonable period of time,

grieve his discharge and/or suspension to the Port Director, or his designee who shall, within

five (5) working days of the receipt of the same, meet with a representative of the Federation

-5-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

in an attempt to resolve the grievance.  At this meeting the employee and/or the on-site

Federation representative shall also be present.  Within five (5) working days after this

meeting, the Port Director shall render his decision in writing.

Section D

With respect to discharge and/or suspension, the County shall notify the affected

employee no later than ten (10) working days from the date the County fixes the responsibility

for the incident upon which the discharge and/or suspension is based.  The County's failure

to comply with the ten (10) working day period shall constitute a waiver of its rights to take any

disciplinary action against the employee or employees, including, but not limited to, oral

reprimand, written reprimand, suspensions or discharges, for the incident.

Section E

The time limitations provided in this Article shall be strictly observed and shall be

extended  only  by  written  agreement  of  the  parties.    In  the  event  that  the  County  or  the

Federation fails to comply with any of the aforesaid time limitations in Steps 1-3 of the

grievance procedure or Section C and/or D of this Article, the County shall be deemed to have

waived its right to contest said grievance and said grievance shall be sustained with all

requested relief automatically implemented, and should the Federation fail to so comply the

grievance shall be deemed denied and no relief granted.

Section F

Application to this procedure shall foreclose the grievant from appealing to any other

available County procedure or vice-versa.

Section G

-6-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

Nothing in this Article shall require the Federation to process grievances for employees

who are not members of the Federation, in conformity with Florida law.

-7-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

Section A

ARTICLE 5

ARBITRATION

In the event any disputes and/or differences, including discharges and suspensions,

have  been  properly  processed  through  the  grievance  procedure  without  resolution,  the

Federation may demand arbitration and this demand, in writing, shall be presented to the Port

Director, or his designee, within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the decision of the

previous step.

The arbitrator shall be appointed by mutual consideration of the parties.  In the event

the parties are unable to agree upon a neutral within ten (10) working days after the arbitration

is invoked, either party may petition the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and

request a list of five (5) qualified arbitrators and from said list the parties shall alternately strike

and select a single arbitrator to preside as a neutral at the hearing involving the grievance.

The decision of said arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties.  The

arbitrator shall not be empowered to alter, amend, add to, or eliminate any provisions of this

Collective Bargaining Agreement.  Expenses shall be borne equally by both parties.

Section B

In the event that an employee has been disciplined to the extent that he or she has been

suspended or discharged and is reinstated by an arbitrator's decision, the employee shall be

reinstated with all back pay and with no loss or impairment of any rights under this Agreement

or other rules and regulations of the Authority, unless directed otherwise by the arbitrator.

Section C

-8-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

In the event that any employee has been suspended and that suspension is upheld, that

employee, upon the expiration of that suspension, shall be fully reinstated to his or her former

position with no loss or impairment of any of his or her rights under this Collective Bargaining

Agreement or other rules and regulations of the County.

-9-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 6

IMPASSE RESOLUTION

In the event that there is an impasse in negotiations concerning the negotiation of a new

collective bargaining agreement or the mutual amendment of an existing collective bargaining

agreement, the parties agree that the resolution of any impasse issues shall be governed by

the provisions of Florida Statutes Chapter 447, as amended.  

-10-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 7

ON-SITE REPRESENTATIVE

Section A

The Federation shall have one (1) on-site representative and one (1) alternate, and

shall notify the County of the individuals by mail.

Section B

The on-site representative will be given up to fifteen (15) minutes with pay to discuss

any  grievance  with  a  unit  member.    If  a  grievance  is  filed  and  processed,  the  on-site

representative will be permitted to attend any grievance meeting called by the County without

loss of pay.

Section C

The on-site representative will be permitted two (2) days off per year and the alternate

one (1) day off per year without loss of pay to attend an officially sanctioned Federation

seminar, meeting or convention.

Section D

For purposes of reduction in work force, the on-site representative shall be entitled to

super seniority.

-11-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 8

BULLETIN BOARDS

The County agrees that The Department of Port Everglades shall provide space on all

bulletin boards within its jurisdiction for use by the Federation.

All notices to be posted shall be submitted to the Port Director or his designee.  Upon

receipt, and within one (1) working day, the Port Director or his designee shall have posted

said notices.

-12-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 9

JOB POSTING, FILLING

VACANCIES AND NEW POSITIONS

When the County is actively seeking to fill a vacancy or creates a new position within

this bargaining unit, the County shall be required to post said vacancy within five (5) working

days of such an event.  The notice shall be posted for three (3) consecutive working days and

shall include a job description, job grade, rate of pay and deadline for application.  Each

regular full-time employee within the bargaining unit shall have the first opportunity to apply and

be considered for such position.  Following the posting deadline, the applicants shall be

interviewed and evaluated based upon their ability to perform the job.  All things being equal,

the applicant with the most seniority shall be appointed.

-13-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 10

WORKING OUT OF CLASS

Section A

Whenever an employee is requested to perform the tasks of a higher graded position

that employee shall receive the rate of pay of that higher graded position or five percent (5%)

above his/her regular rate of pay if the rate of pay for the higher graded position is less than

five percent (5%) over and above that employee's regular rate of pay and his/her regular

position whichever is greater for each and every hour worked in any higher grade during that

contract year.

Section B

An employee temporarily assigned to a lower graded position shall be compensated

at the rate of pay received in his/her regularly assigned job grade.

Section C

In the event that an employee is called back to work after he/she has completed his/her

workday, that employee shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours re-call pay at the employee's

overtime rate of pay.

-14-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 11

SAFETY BOARD

The County agrees that the Port Director shall establish a Safety Board which shall

convene  monthly  during  normal  business  hours.    The  County  further  agrees  that  one

representative from this bargaining unit shall serve on the Board at no loss of pay and/or other

fringe benefits.  The business of the Board shall consist of periodic review of occupational and

safety standards at the Department of Port Everglades and review of all safety complaints

made by employees.  Any resolution and/or recommended action by the Board shall be

directed, in writing, to the Port Director or his designee to be acted upon immediately.

-15-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 12

WORK WEEK

The work week of all employees shall be five (5) consecutive days followed by two (2)

consecutive days off.  In the event that there is any change in any of the employee's work

schedule, the County shall give notice to both the employee and the Federation, in writing, two

(2)  weeks  prior  to  any  change.    When  an  emergency  exists,  the  two  (2)  week  notice

requirement may be waived.

-16-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 13

OVERTIME

Section A

An employee who works in excess of forty (40) hours per week shall receive, at the

County's option, either compensatory time or paid overtime both at the employee's overtime

rate of one and on-half (1 1/2) for every hour worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week.

Business related travel is exempt from overtime payment.

Section B

Call Back Pay

Any  employee  who  is  called  back  to  work  at  a  time  other  than  his/her  regularly

scheduled hours of work/shift shall be granted a minimum of four (4) hours compensation at

one and one-half (1 1/2) times his/her regular rate of pay regardless of time actually worked.

Section C

Portal-to-Portal Pay

An affected employee shall be compensated from the time he/she reasonably leaves

his/her residence and he/she shall continue to be compensated until said employee returns

to his/her residence, unless the said employee is given at least eight hours prior notice of

scheduled overtime.

Overtime hours contiguous to regularly scheduled hours of work/shift shall not be

subject to portal-to-portal pay.

Portal-to-portal pay shall not apply if an employee is assigned to a full eight hour shift

other than his/her regularly scheduled hours of work/shift.

-17-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 14

WAGES AND PAY PLAN

Section A

The County and the Federation recognize and agree that the wage and pay plan

provided in this Article shall constitute the official pay plan governing all persons employed in

classifications included in this bargaining unit.

Section B

Individuals hired into a position included in this unit shall assume the first step in the

grade  to  which  that  position  is  assigned.    Upon  successful  completion  of  a  six-month

probationary period, the employee's pay step shall be adjusted upward one step.  At the

conclusion of one year of service in grade and upon the annual anniversary, the employee will

be advanced two (2) pay steps until such time as the employee has reached the maximum pay

step in the grade to which he/she is assigned.  Such adjustments are, however, subject to

satisfactory performance.

Section C

When an employee is promoted to a position assigned to a higher grade, his/her wage

rate shall be adjusted to the minimum pay step in the higher grade.  If the employee's current

pay step exceeds the minimum pay step in the higher grade, the employee's wage rate shall

be increased by two (2) steps provided it does not exceed the maximum of the new grade.

The employee shall then be eligible for step increases as provided in Section B of this Article.

Section D

-18-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

When an employee is demoted to a position assigned to a lower grade, his/her pay

step shall be decreased by three (3) pay steps provided that the decrease is not below the

minimum of the new grade.  If the adjustment would place the employee's pay step below the

minimum step for the lower grade, the employee will assume the first step in the lower grade.

Section E

Individuals employed by the County at the time of ratification of this contract, will

assume their proper grade and pay step and will be eligible for step adjustments as provided

in Section B of this Article.  If an employee's pay step assignment exceeds the highest pay

step for that grade to which his/her position is assigned, the wage rate and pay step shall not

be reduced, however, the employee shall not be eligible for pay step increases.

Section F

1.  Fiscal Year 2000/2001

Effective the first full pay period in October 2000, all pay grades, pay steps and wage

rates will be adjusted upward five percent (5%) as reflected in Appendix A1.  

2.  Fiscal Year 2001/2002

          Effective the first full pay period of October 2001, all pay grades, pay steps and wage

rates will be adjusted upward five percent (5%) as reflected in Appendix A2.   

3.  Fiscal Year 2002/2003 

 Effective the first full pay period in October 2002, all pay grades, pay steps and wage

rates will be adjusted upward three percent (3%) as reflected in Appendix A3.   

Section G

Effective at the end of the last pay period in Calendar Year 2000, all employer     

-19-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

contributions to any deferred compensation plan for any and all employees covered by this

Agreement shall cease. 

No later than the end of Calendar Year 2000, all bargaining unit employees   who

participated in Deferred Compensation and received employer matching contributions as of

December 31, 1999, and are continuously employed in a bargaining unit position through the

signing of this Agreement or deceased during Calendar Year 2000,  shall receive a one-time,

gross lump sum payment, not part of base salary, in the amount of Two Thousand and five

hundred dollars ($2,500), less any applicable taxes.  

No later than October 31, 2001, all bargaining unit employees who participated in

Deferred Compensation and received employer matching contributions as of December 31,

1999, and are continuously employed in a bargaining unit position through October 1, 2001

or deceased during Calendar Year 2000, shall receive a  one-time, gross lump sum payment,

not part of base salary, in the amount of Two Thousand and five hundred dollars ($2,500), less

any applicable taxes. 

-20-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

PAY GRADE ASSIGNMENTS

JOB TITLE

GRADE

Community Affairs Representative

Manager, Marketing Services

Latin American Sales Manager

Assistant Wharfinger

           FTZ Warehouse Manager

Communications Supervisor

           Business Permit Manager 

                            

4GS

I.D. Systems Specialist                      

Accountant

Senior Engineering Technician

          Engineering Office Manager

5GS

          Senior Survey Party Chief

Registered Survey Party Chief

Maintenance Supervisor                       

Senior Accountant

Wharfinger

Assistant Port Crane Engineer

Assistant Harbormaster

3GS

3GS

4GS

4GS

4GS

4GS

4GS

5GS

5GS

5GS

6GS

6GS

7GS

7GS

7GS

7GS

Marketing/Manager/Cargo Development

8GS

-21-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

PAY GRADE ASSIGNMENTS

JOB TITLE

Assistant to the Director of Operations

Port Crane Engineer

GRADE

10GS

12GS

-22-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

-23-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

-24-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

-25-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 15

HOLIDAYS

Section A

The following holidays will be observed as holidays for County employees of this

bargaining unit:

New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday
Washington's Birthday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day

  

Veteran's Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day After Thanksgiving
1/2 Day Christmas Eve
Christmas Day
1/2 Day New Year's Eve

Any holiday adopted by the Department of Port Everglades shall be incorporated by

reference as a holiday with respect to the employees covered by this Agreement.

Section B

In the event that any of the aforementioned holidays fall within an employee's regular

work week, the employee shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay and shall receive

the day off.

Section C

In  the  event  that  a  holiday(s)  falls  outside  the  employee's  work  week,  and  that

employee's  work  week  is  not  Monday  through  Friday,  the  employee  shall  receive  the

equivalent of that holiday(s) as compensatory time and/or days off.  Said compensatory time

and/or days(s) off for the holiday(s) must be requested by the employee within sixty (60) days

from the date of the holiday(s).  In the event that the employee requests the compensatory time

and/or days off but is denied said time and/or day(s) off, the employee shall, at his option

either receive compensation in lieu of the compensatory time and/or day(s) off or designate
PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

-26-

another compensatory day and/or time off.  Said request shall not be unreasonably denied by

the County.  In the event that the employee fails to request his compensatory time and/or

day(s) within sixty (60) days from the date of the holiday, then the County shall have the right

to designate the equivalent day(s) and/or time off on behalf of the employee.

Section D

If a holiday(s) falls on a weekend for employees who are regularly scheduled to work

Monday through Friday, said employee shall receive the Monday following the weekend or the

last working day prior to the holiday to replace that holiday.  The Director of Administration at

Port Everglades shall designate the day to be taken off in lieu of said holiday.

Whenever a holiday listed in this Article falls on a Saturday or Sunday, and the Director

of Administration at Port Everglades designates a Friday or Monday as the holiday that

designated day will apply only for employees working Monday through Friday schedules.  For

all other employees only, the actual holiday will be applicable for purposes of this Article.

In no case will any employee be entitled to consider both the actual and the designated

holiday as a "holiday" for the purposes of compensation and time off in the application of this

Article.

Section E

Any employee who works on a designated holiday shall receive eight (8) hours holiday

pay plus one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular rate of pay for all hours worked on the

holiday.

Section F

Employees will be granted sixteen (16) hours paid leave per calendar year to be

-27-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

utilized for personal business.  Notice to the employee's supervisor forty-eight (48) hours in

advance shall be required to take such time off, except in the event of a personal emergency.

-28-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 16

VACATION

Each regular employee shall be entitled to vacation with pay based on the schedule

below:

Ten (10) working days each year for the first
four (4) years of employment;

Fifteen (15) working days each year for years
five (5) through nine (9);

Twenty (20) days each year for years ten (10)
and over.

Employees will be entitled to the scheduled vacation above or pay therefore, in event

of resignation or termination, only after completion of twelve (12) months of continuous service.

An employee may be permitted to take five (5) days of vacation with pay after completion of

six  (6)  months  continuous  service  upon  the  Department  Director's  approval  but  if  the

employee's service is terminated for any reason before twelve (12) calendar months, the

amount paid for vacation will be deducted from the employee's final check.  Vacations are

earned on the basis of length of service with the County.

Vacation must be taken in the calendar year in which due.  If the first anniversary of

employment does not permit sufficient time to take such vacation before the end of the year,

all, or part, of the vacation may be deferred, but must be taken before January 31st of the next

calendar year.  After the first anniversary of employment, an employee will become entitled

to his/her next vacation year and the vacation year will coincide with the calendar year

thereafter.  Any vacation not taken in the year in which due shall be forfeited unless postponed

at the Port Director's request in which case the employee will be permitted to take such
PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

-29-

vacation the next calendar year, provided such vacation is taken before March 31st, or at the

County's or employees option, the employee may receive cash payment in lieu of accrued

vacation hours.  The County agrees to give employees at least thirty (30) days notice before

canceling scheduled vacation except for emergencies.  The employees in this unit must

submit a written request for vacation dates prior to March 1 of each calendar year.  Once

approved by the County, any changes in the employee's vacation schedule must be approved

by his/her Division Head with the understanding that any requested changes will not be

unreasonably withheld.

In the calendar years in which his/her fourth and ninth employment anniversaries fall,

an employee may schedule an additional week of vacation with pay beginning January 1st of

that year but if the employee resigns or is terminated prior to his/her anniversary date, the

additional vacation pay will be deducted from the employee's final check.  When an employee

resigns, he/she will be paid for any unused vacation in the previous year plus any vacation pay

earned in the current calendar year.  Each employee entitled to a vacation may indicate

his/her preferred vacation time and such request will be considered in continuous service

order  and  granted  when  practicable  but  it  is  understood  that  efficient  operation  of  the

Department shall be the first consideration and the County shall have the right to assign

vacations on that basis.

All pay due an employee while on vacation will be made available to the employee on

the last working day preceding the vacation leave, provided the employee has submitted a

written request for such pay, and such written request has been received by the Finance

Division at Port Everglades no less than fourteen (14) days prior to the date such pay is

-30-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

desired.

An employee's vacation pay will be based on the employee's bi-weekly pay rate in

effect at the end of the payroll period completed just prior to the beginning of vacation.  A

working day for vacation purposes will be eight (8) hours.

In the event that an employee is sick during his/her scheduled vacation those sick days

during said vacation shall be charged to his/her sick leave time and his/her vacation shall be

extended for the same number of days.

-31-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 17

SICK LEAVE

Employees, including probationary employees, will earn credit of eight (8) hours of sick

pay for each month of service.  Such credit will be accumulated from the date of employment

and shall be unlimited.  An employee who does not use sick leave for a period of six (6)

consecutive months will have one (1) bonus day added to his vacation leave.

Employees may use sick leave credit for personal illness or injury or illness occurring

in the immediate family as defined in Article 29 providing that the employee notifies his/her

division/department director on the first day of absence for such illness or injury and states the

reason for the absence.

When an employee is disabled because of an occupational injury or illness incurred

while performing assigned duties for the Authority for which he is eligible to receive Workers'

Compensation payments, he/she will receive a supplementary salary payment during the time

such Workers' Compensation is paid in an amount equal to the difference between the

maximum Workers' Compensation benefit payable and sixty percent (60%) of the employee's

base salary paid in the period just prior to the disability for a maximum of ninety (90) working

days.

In addition, such employee may elect to receive additional supplementary salary

payments during the time such Workers' Compensation is paid which will provide him/her with

approximately the same net pay as he/she had received prior to the disability.  If he/she so

elects sick leave credits in hours accumulated as of the beginning date of the disability will be

used to provide such supplement.  The credits will be valued according to the employee's daily

-32-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

rate of pay at the time the disability began and the amount of the supplement will be charged

against such credits when paid bi-weekly.

When an employee covered by this Agreement who has no accumulated sick leave

credits to use to supplement workers' compensation payments or if an employee has no

accumulated sick leave credits and suffers a non job related illness or injury, other employees

covered by this Agreement may, if they wish, transfer a specified portion of their accumulated

sick leave credits to the credit of the disabled employee.  Such transfer of such sick leave

credits shall be on a form provided by the Authority.

Probationary  employees  earn  credits  for  illness  or  injury  leave  from  the  date  of

employment and such leave credits can be used during the probationary period.  A permanent

employee who is absent from work and disabled because of a job related injury or a job

related  illness  will  continue  to  accrue  sick  leave  hours  during  such  period  of  absence.

An  employee  will  be  paid  thirty  percent  (30%)  of  the  value  of  the  sick  leave

accumulated  to  his/her  credit  at  the  time  of  separation,  provided  the  employee  leaves

employment in good standing.  If an employee retires under the provisions of the Florida

Retirement System he/she will be paid one hundred percent (100%) of the value of the sick

leave accumulated to his/her credit at time of separation.  Upon death of employee one

hundred percent (100%) of the value of accumulated sick leave will be paid to the employee's

beneficiary as named on the employee's group insurance policy.  The maximum pay out for

this Article shall be one hundred forty (140) days of sick leave credit.

-33-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 18

LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

Section A

Leaves of absence without pay, beyond the vacation to which an employee is entitled,

may be granted for good and sufficient reason in the opinion of the Port Director or his

designee.  Efficient operation shall be the first consideration for approval of such leave.  The

term of the leave of absence shall be in writing and the leave will not be for more than six (6)

months but the term may be extended for one (1) additional six (6) month period at the option

of the Port Director or his designee.

For purposes of Maternity Leaves of Absence without pay, the leave of absence,

beyond the vacation to which and employee is entitled, will be granted.  However, this section

shall not exclude any benefits to which employees are entitled for Maternity purposes under

any other benefits provided for by the County.

Section B 

Such leave, including any extension, shall not affect an employee's continuous service

providing there has been no impairment of his/her ability to perform the available work but if

an employee fails to return to work within the term of leave, the employee's continuous service

shall be broken and employment shall be terminated.

Section C

At the end of the leave of absence, an employee will be entitled to reinstatement at a

rate of pay not less than that which he/she received immediately prior to his/her leave of

absence.  The employee, upon return, shall return to his/her old job or the equivalent.

-34-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

Section D

During the leave of absence, the employee will not be entitled to accumulate any sick

leave or annual leave (vacation).  In addition, the employee will not be eligible for any holiday

pay during such leave.

Section E

No leave of absence, with or without pay, will be granted to permit an employee to work

at another job or conduct a business.

Section F

An employee who is granted an unpaid leave of absence may keep the insurance

coverage on himself/herself and his/her dependents in effect by paying the entire premium for

such coverage without contribution by the County in advance each month during the period of

such leave.

-35-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 19

PROBATION

When an employee is hired by the County, said employee shall be on probationary

status for the first one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of employment.  After completion

of said period the employee shall attain a permanent employee status.

During an employee's probationary status, the County may terminate said employee

for any reason.  Said action shall not be subject to appeal by the employee and/or the

Federation.

In the event that an employee employed by the County fills a vacancy or a new position

in  any  other  job  classification  with  the  Department  of  Port  Everglades  and  the  County

determines, within the probationary period, that the employee has not satisfactorily performed

that job, or the employee, within the probationary period, determines that he/she no longer

desires to remain in that position, the employee automatically shall return to his previous

position with the Department of Port Everglades with no loss of seniority and/or other fringe

benefits.

-36-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 20

RULES AND REGULATIONS

The Federation recognizes the right of the County to establish reasonable rules and

regulations, including rules and regulations regarding drug and alcohol abuse, for the safe and

efficient conduct of County business and reasonable penalties for violation of such rules

provided said rules and regulations do not conflict with any provisions of the Collective

Bargaining  Agreement  or  any  terms  and  conditions  of  employment.    Established  rules,

regulations and penalties shall be posted within the department/division.  Changes in present

rules shall not become effective until they have been posted for seven (7) calendar days at the

time of posting and a copy has been directed to the Federation by mail.

-37-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 21

TERMINATION

An employee who is terminated for any reason shall receive all pay due for work

performed to the effective date and hour of termination.  Said employee shall also be paid for

any unused vacation and accrued vacation earned, if applicable.

The County agrees that simultaneous with the termination of any employee, a copy of

the written notice of termination shall be directed by mail to the Federation.

When in its sole judgment, the County decides to issue an invitation for contractors to

bid to provide a function presently performed by bargaining unit employees, and that action

could displace bargaining unit employees, management shall notify the Union at least 30 days

prior to the date that the invitation to bid is issued.  The Union shall be provided with all

pertinent material provided to outside contractors.  The Union shall have the right to meet with

management to discuss the proposed action, and the Union shall have the right to submit

alternate proposals for management review.  Through the meetings, the parties shall attempt

to limit the adverse impact that any possible contracting of services might cause.  The

meetings shall not preclude the County from proceeding with the process of issuing invitations

to bid or awarding of bids, nor shall the meetings cause delay in the issuance of invitations to

bid, or the awarding of bids.

In the event that an employee no longer is employed by the County or any other

government entity due to abolishment of the Department of Port Everglades, a division or,

and/or job classification and/or an employee who is laid off in excess of twelve (12) months

and is no longer subject to being recalled by the County, said employee, in addition to any

-38-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

other  benefits  to  which  that  employee  may  be  entitled  under  the  Collective  Bargaining

Agreement and Rules and Regulations of the County, shall receive termination pay according

to the following schedule.

(a)  1 to 2 years service
     3 to 5 years service
     6 to 10 years service
     In excess of 10 years service  -  10 weeks

2 weeks
4 weeks
6 weeks

-
-
-

Employees with service in excess of ten years who are entitled to benefits under this

Article shall receive one (1) additional week of salary for each five (5) years of completed

service.

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

One (1) week's pay shall be calculated by multiplying the employee's regular
rate of pay at the time of termination by forty (40) hours.

Payment will be made in a lump sum.

Payment will not duplicate any similar benefit provided by any municipality or
any Federal, State, or other governmental agency except that such payment will
not bar payment of unemployment compensation.

Payment will not be made to any one who retires under the Florida Retirement
System.

-39-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 22

LAYOFF AND RECALL

Prior to any proposed reduction in work force, furlough, layoff, abolishment of the

Department of Port Everglades, division or job classification the County shall, as soon as

practicable, notify the Union and the parties shall meet in order to explore alternatives.

In the event of a reduction in force, furlough, layoff abolishment of the Department of

Port Everglades, division or job classification, the bargaining unit employee with the least

seniority as defined in Article 23, shall be the first to be affected and said reduction in force,

furlough,  layoff,  abolishment  of  the  Department  of  Port  Everglades,  division  or  job

classification shall continue in the same order thereafter.  Any employee who is affected by

the above shall have the option of displacing any junior employee in an equal or lower job

classification employed by the Department provided the employee is able to perform the

duties of that job classification.  Any employee whose employment is affected by any of the

circumstances contained above, shall, for a one (1) year period, have the right to fill any

subsequent vacancy in the work force provided he/she has the ability to perform the duties of

that position.  The County shall notify, by certified mail, any affected employee of any vacancy.

-40-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 23

SENIORITY

Seniority  shall  be  defined  as  continuous  length  of  service  with  the  Department.

However, nothing herein shall affect an employee's original date of hire in the event that the

employee leaves employment with the Department and returns to employment within a period

of six (6) months.

-41-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 24

UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT

Section A

The County shall provide uniforms for those employees whose job assignments require

them to be in uniform.  The employees shall wear the uniform when on duty and shall maintain

a suitable appearance at all times.

Section B

The County agrees to provide all tools and equipment that are necessary for an

employee to fulfill all his/her work assignments.

Section C

The County shall compensate all employees who are provided uniforms a clothing

allowance in the amount of $300.00 per year commencing 1/1/90.

-42-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 25

UNION DEDUCTIONS

Union deductions shall be made in accordance with forms provided by the Federation

and executed and authorized by the employee authorizing said deductions.  There shall be no

charge  made  by  the  County  for  these  deductions.    The  exact  amount  of  monies  to  be

deducted for each employee shall be provided by the Federation to the County.  Any changes

in the amounts to be deducted shall be given to the County thirty (30) days in advance.  These

monies,  along  with  a  list  of  each  employee's  name  and  monthly  base  wage,  shall  be

transmitted to the Federation within thirty (30) days after the monthly deductions.

The Federation shall indemnify the Authority and hold the County harmless against any

and all suits, claims, demands and liabilities which arise out of or by reason of any action

taken by the County to comply or attempt to comply with the provisions of this Article.

-43-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 26

USE OF PAYROLL UNIT FOR DISTRIBUTION OF UNION MATERIAL

Section A

The County agrees to permit the Union to use the Finance Division of Port Everglades

for distribution of written material, provided that such material will only be disseminated on the

normal payday.  The Union shall notify and provide the material to be distributed to the

Director of Finance at Port Everglades no later than 11:00 a.m., two (2) days preceding the

normal payday.

Section B

It is understood by both parties that the County shall incur no liability with respect to any

action that may or may not be taken by any individual, group or corporation as a result of the

distribution of such material.

-44-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 27

JURY DUTY

Employees who are called for jury duty or who are subpoenaed as witnesses before

any court of competent jurisdiction or administrative tribunal shall, upon submission of proper

proof, be paid straight time compensation for such time as they are actually detained from

their regular shift, less any fee received.

If an employee assigned to a first or third shift, said employee shall be assigned to the

second shift.  The two week notice of change of work schedule, as provided for in Article 12,

shall be waived.

For purposes of this article, shifts shall be defined as:

Second Shift:  All work shifts which begin between 4 a.m. and

11:59 a.m.

Third Shift :  All work shifts which begin between 12 noon and

7:59 p.m.

First Shift :  All work shifts which begin between 8 p.m. and

3:59 a.m.

-45-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 28

MILITARY LEAVE

The County recognizes the right and duty of its employees to serve in units of the U.S.

Armed Forces, reserves, and the Florida National Guard.  As such, military leave will be

granted in accordance with applicable Federal and/or State Statutes.

-46-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 29

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

Any employee who suffers the death of an immediate family member shall be granted

bereavement leave in the following manner:

(a)

(b)

If the death occurs within the State of Florida - four (4) compensated working
days.

If the death occurs outside the State of Florida - five (5) compensated working
days.

For purposes of this section an immediate family member shall be mother; father;

sister; brother; grandmother; grandfather; spouse; son; daughter; grandchildren; mother-in-law;

father-in-law;  daughter-in-law;  son-in-law;  brother-in-law;  sister-in-law;  grandparents  of

employee's spouse and any other relative residing in the employee's household.

-47-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 30

PALLBEARER

In the event that an employee is requested to serve as an unpaid pallbearer, the

employee may do so without loss of pay or fringe benefits for a maximum of two (2) days per

calendar year.  This provision shall not apply to any employee eligible for leave as provided

in Article 29, Bereavement Leave.

-48-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 31

EDUCATIONAL REIMBURSEMENTS

Section A

Employees covered by this Agreement may participate in the County's Educational

Reimbursement Program as established by Section 26-3 of the Broward County Code of

Ordinances.  The eligibility requirements and the amount, type and condition precedent to

obtaining reimbursement, will be established by the County.

Section B

To improve the quality of personal service rendered to the public and to aid employees

in equipping themselves for advancement, any permanent full-time employee may request

Educational Leave for the purpose of taking occupationally related courses or training.  The

following procedures shall apply:

A.

The  immediate  supervisor  shall  determine  the  feasibility  of  excusing  the

employee  from  work  by  examining  the  work  schedule  and  arranging  for

adequate  coverage  and/or  redistribution  of  work  assignments  during  the

employee's absence.

B.

The Division Director or designated Section Head shall then determine whether

the courses or training are occupationally related and whether leave shall be

granted with full pay subject to review by the Personnel Director if denied.

C.

Request for educational leave must have final approval in advance by the

Human Resources Director and shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) working

days or one hundred sixty (160) work hours in any one (1) calendar year per

-49-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

employee, except as may be approved by the County Administrator.

D.

An employee will be advised as whether his/her request is approved or denied

within thirty (30) calendar days of the date on which the employee's written

request is received by the Human Resources Division.  Such requests shall not

be unreasonably denied.

-50-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 32

PERSONAL PROPERTY DAMAGE

Section A

Employees  whose  personal  property  is  damaged  under  certain  conditions  while

working are to be reimbursed for the cost of repairing the damages or for replacement if

repairs cannot be made.

Section B

The County will reimburse the employee if:

1.

2.

3.

4.

The damage occurred while in the performance of County business on County
property or elsewhere if under the direction of the employee's supervisor.

The damage occurred during the employee's working hours.

The damage was caused by an object, piece of equipment, material or another
employee where all persons involved were legitimately carrying out the duties
of their jobs.

The employee was wearing protective equipment where prescribed for a given
job.

Section C

The County will not reimburse the employee if:

During lunch, break and refreshment period.

While breaking normal rules of conduct expected in a business environment or
violating safety rules.

1.

2.

Section D

The claim must be presented on a prescribed form to the Director of Administration

at Port Everglades.  The form must be approved by the employee's supervisor and

department head and submitted within two (2) working days after damage occurs.  A witness
PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

-51-

to the accident should be included whenever possible.

-52-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 33

POLITICAL ACTIVITY

There shall be no restrictions placed on employees with regard to political activity.

Employees may hold membership in or support any political party, run for political office, vote

as  they  choose,  express  their  opinions  and  wishes  on  political  issues  and  candidates,

maintain partisan neutrality and attend political functions as long as these activities do not take

place during the employees working hours.

-53-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 34

STRIKES, SLOWDOWNS

The  Federation  agrees  that  there  shall  be  no  strikes  or  slowdowns  of  any  kind

whatsoever by employees of this bargaining unit.

The County agrees that there shall be no lockout of the employees for any reason.

-54-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

ARTICLE 35

VOTING TIME

Employees will be granted reasonable time up to one hour (1) voting time for any

County, State or Federal election.

-55-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 36

SUCCESSOR CLAUSE

The terms of this Agreement shall be binding on any and all successors without

modification or alteration in any respect in the event of annexation, change of management,

consolidation, merger or sale.

-56-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 37

SAVINGS CLAUSE

If  any  provision  of  this  Agreement,  or  the  application  of  such  provision  shall  be

rendered or declared invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining parts or

portions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  In the event of the foregoing,

the parties agree to renegotiate a replacement provision.

Any  benefit  which  accrued  to  any  employee  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  this

Agreement, which has been approved by the Port Director and which is not specifically

mentioned in this Agreement shall continue.

-57-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 38

TOTALITY OF AGREEMENT

The County and the Federation recognize and agree that the provisions contained

herein represent the totality of the agreement between the parties.  It is understood and

agreed, however, that the parties may by voluntary mutual consent, modify or add to this

Agreement at any time during its term.

-58-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 39

GROUP INSURANCE

Effective January 1, 2001, all employees covered by this Agreement shall receive  the

same group insurance benefits as provided to other County employees in accordance with

the County Benefit Program.

-59-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 40

LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN

The County shall continue to provide a long-term disability plan for employees covered

by this agreement.

Pending  availability  and  cost,  the  plan  or  a  successor  plan  shall  be  continued

throughout the duration of this collective bargaining agreement.  Prior to any discontinuation

of the plan, the parties shall meet to discuss the impact upon bargaining unit employees.

-60-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

 

ARTICLE 41 

TERM OF AGREEMENT

The provisions of this agreement are for the fiscal years 2000/01, 2001/02, and

2002/03 and shall be effective upon ratification of the Union membership and approval of the

Board of County Commissioners for Broward County, Florida except as otherwise provided

in the agreement, and shall continue in force thereafter, through September 30, 2003. It shall

automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall notify the other,

in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date, that it desires to terminate or

modify this agreement.  In the event that such notice is given, negotiations shall begin not later

than thirty (30) days prior to the anniversary date.

-61-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

SIGNATURE PAGE

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed and

signed by their duly authorized representatives, as of this        day of                        , 200   .

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES,

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

A DIVISION THE NATIONAL     

BY ITS BOARD OF COUNTY

FEDERATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE

COMMISSIONERS

EMPLOYEES (AFL-CIO)

By___________________________
  DIVISION PRESIDENT 

By______________________________
   CHAIRPERSON

By___________________________
  BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE

By______________________________
  COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR

By___________________________
  WITNESS

By______________________________
  WITNESS

By___________________________
  WITNESS

By______________________________
  WITNESS

-62-

PORT SUPERVISORY
PORT SUPERVISORY

           APPENDIX A1

   (Effective October 2000)

STEPS

      A

       B

       C

      D

      E

       F

      G

       H

      I

31,340

32,124

32,930

33,752

34,597

35,460

36,348

37,258

38,190

33,752

34,597

35,460

36,348

37,258

38,190

39,145

40,122

41,127

36,348

37,258

38,190

39,145

40,122

41,127

42,156

43,213

44,290

39,145

40,122

41,127

42,156

43,213

44,290

45,397

46,528

47,693

42,156

43,213

44,290

45,397

46,528

47,693

48,888

50,110

51,363

45,397

46,528

47,693

48,888

50,110

51,363

52,645

53,965

55,312

48,888

50,110

51,363

52,645

53,965

55,312

56,696

58,113

59,569

52,645

53,965

55,312

56,696

58,113

59,569

61,055

62,581

64,147

56,696

58,113

59,569

61,055

62,581

64,147

65,753

67,396

69,081

61,055

62,581

64,147

65,753

67,396

69,081

70,808

72,577

74,397

65,753

67,396

69,081

70,808

72,577

74,397

76,293

78,201

80,157

69,081

70,808

72,577

74,397

76,293

78,201

80,157

82,161

84,216

1GS

2GS

3GS

4GS

5GS

6GS

7GS

8GS

9GS

10GS

11GS

12GS

Port Supervisory

           APPENDIX A2

   (Effective October 2001)

STEPS

      A

       B

       C

       D

      E

      F

      G

      H

      I

32,907

33,730

34,576

35,439

36,327

37,233

38,166

39,121

40,100

35,439

36,327

37,233

38,166

39,121

40,100

41,102

42,128

43,183

38,166

39,121

40,100

41,102

42,128

43,183

44,264

45,374

46,504

41,102

42,128

43,183

44,264

45,374

46,504

47,667

48,855

50,078

44,264

45,374

46,504

47,667

48,855

50,078

51,332

52,616

53,931

47,667

48,855

50,078

51,332

52,616

53,931

55,278

56,663

58,078

51,332

52,616

53,931

55,278

56,663

58,078

59,531

61,018

62,548

55,278

56,663

58,078

59,531

61,018

62,548

64,108

65,710

67,355

59,531

61,018

62,548

64,108

65,710

67,355

69,041

70,766

72,535

1GS

2GS

3GS

4GS

5GS

6GS

7GS

8GS

9GS

10GS

64,108

65,710

67,355

69,041

70,766

72,535

74,349

76,206

78,117

11GS

69,041

70,766

72,535

74,349

76,206

78,117

80,108

82,111

84,165

12GS

72,535

74,349

76,206

78,117

80,108

82,111

84,165

86,269

88,427

           APPENDIX A3

   (Effective October 2002)

STEPS

      A

      B

       C

      D

      E

      F

      G

      H

      I

33,895

34,742

35,614

36,502

37,416

38,350

39,311

40,295

41,303

36,502

37,416

38,350

39,311

40,295

41,303

42,335

43,392

44,479

39,311

40,295

41,303

42,335

43,392

44,479

45,592

46,735

47,899

42,335

43,392

44,479

45,592

46,735

47,899

49,097

50,320

51,580

45,592

46,735

47,899

49,097

50,320

51,580

52,872

54,194

55,549

49,097

50,320

51,580

52,872

54,194

55,549

56,936

58,363

59,820

52,872

54,194

55,549

56,936

58,363

59,820

61,317

62,849

64,424

56,936

58,363

59,820

61,317

62,849

64,424

66,031

67,682

69,375

61,317

62,849

64,424

66,031

67,682

69,375

71,112

72,889

74,711

66,031

67,682

69,375

71,112

72,889

74,711

76,579

78,492

80,460

71,112

72,889

74,711

76,579

78,492

80,460

82,511

84,574

86,690

74,711

76,579

78,492

80,460

82,511

84,574

86,690

88,857

91,080

1GS

2GS

3GS

4GS

5GS

6GS

7GS

8GS

9GS

10GS

11GS

12GS

Port Supervisory

