Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

25

Language English

Country United States

State

FL

Union OPEIU (Office and Professional Employees International Union) AFL-CIO

Local Local 100 - Supervisory, Government Supervisors Association of Florida

Office and administrative support worker supervisors and managers 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Government Supervisors of Broward Co., FL
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2002

Source

http://www.broward.org/hui02806.htm

Original_format HTML (multipart)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

PREAMBLE 
 
It is the intention of this Agreement to provide for salaries, fringe 
benefits and other terms and conditions of employment of employees covered 
by this Agreement except as otherwise provided by Federal and State 
Constitution, State Statute, or County Charter. It is further the intention 
of this Agreement to prevent interruption of work and interference with the 
efficient operation of the County and to provide an orderly, prompt, 
peaceful, and equitable procedure for the resolution of grievances and the 
promotion of harmonious relations between the County and the Association. 
 
ARTICLE 1 
RECOGNITION OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
The County recognizes the Government Supervisors Association of Florida, 
OPEIU, Local 100, ("Association") which has been certified, by the Florida 
Public Employee Relations Commission, Certification Number 1103, as the 
sole and exclusive representative of the employees within the Bargaining 
Unit, as described pursuant to PERC Case No. RC-94-062, and as amended by 
mutual agreement of the parties for the purpose of collective bargaining 
with respect to wages, hours of employment, and other terms and conditions 
of employment. References to “Supervisors” in this Agreement will include 
all Bargaining Unit members. 
 
INCLUDED: All full-time and permanent part-time employees of the Broward 
County Board of County Commissioners in the classifications set forth in 
Appendix A. 
 
EXCLUDED: All other employees including temporary, "will call" employees, 
supervisory employees with the level or position of section head, assistant 
directors and division and department directors, all employees presently 
represented by a certified bargaining representative, managerial and 
confidential employees as defined by Chapter 447, Part II, Florida 
Statutes, and professional employees. 
 
Whenever the County establishes a new job classification which it believes 
is appropriately included within this Bargaining Unit, the County will 
advise the Union of the official class title and pay range. If the Union 
disagrees with the inclusion of the classification in the Bargaining Unit, 
that classification will not be included in the unit and their party may 
refer this issue to the Public Employees Relations Commission. 
 
ARTICLE 2 
NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination against any employee 
covered by this Agreement because of race, color, sex, creed, national 
origin, marital status, age, disability, sexual orientation, political 
affiliation or belief, religion or religious belief, membership in the 
Association, or engaging in any lawful Association activities, or lack of 
Association membership or activity. 
 
ARTICLE 3 
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 
 
It is understood that the County has the right to operate County 
Government. In order to accomplish the mission of Broward County 

Government, management will necessarily accomplish the following, subject 
to provisions of this Agreement: 
 
A. discipline, demote, suspend, or discharge an employee or class of 
employees for just cause; 
 
B. hire, promote, retain, and evaluate employees; 
 
C. layoff employees because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons; 
 
D. determine what reasonable work activities are performed; 
 
E. supervise and direct its employees consistent with the mission of 
Broward County Divisions of County Government; 
 
F. hold employees of the Bargaining Unit to a high standard of conduct 
consistent with their positions as supervisors and agents of the County; 
 
G. determine unilaterally the purpose of the Divisions; 
 
H. exercise control and discretion over the organization and operation of 
Broward County Divisions of County Government; 
 
I. exercise those rights, powers, and authorities which the County 
legitimately exercised prior to this Agreement; 
 
J. fulfill its legal responsibilities wherever such is not inconsistent 
with the terms of this Agreement; 
 
K. set standards of service to be provided to the public, including the 
right to subcontract. 
 
The County has the right to formulate, change, or modify reasonable rules, 
regulations, and procedures related to operations, except that no rule, 
regulation, or procedure shall be formulated, changed, or modified in a 
manner contrary to the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
APPLICABILITY OF RULES 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Civil Service Rules, 
Administrative Orders and other Rules and Regulations of Broward County, as 
they currently exist or are amended or promulgated by the County Commission 
or Administrator, shall remain in full force and effect, from the effective 
date of this Agreement until otherwise mutually agreed by the parties in 
writing. Where the Civil Service Rules, Administrative Orders and other 
Rules and Regulations of Broward County conflict with the terms of this 
Agreement, this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE 5 
DUES DEDUCTION 
 
The County, where so authorized and directed in writing by an individual 
employee included in the Bargaining Unit on the Authorization and Deduction 
Form properly executed by the individual employee, will deduct that 
individual's Association membership dues. Uniform assessments, defined as 
an across-the-board assessment levied uniformly on all Association members, 

will be deducted from the wages of employees as soon as possible following 
written authorization from the Association. The deductions are subject to 
the following terms and conditions: 
 
A. The County shall deduct from employee wages on each and every pay 
period, the Association membership dues or defined uniform assessments. 
 
B. The County shall not, under any circumstances, deduct from the 
employee's wages any fines, penalties or special assessments. 
 
C. The Association shall indemnify and hold harmless the County including 
its agents and employees from any and all claims, demands, suits (including 
any and all court costs), or expenses and costs in connection therewith 
based upon the County's participation in dues deductions or the deduction 
of uniform assessments. 
 
D. It shall be the responsibility of the Association to notify the County 
in writing of any uniform assessments or changes in the dues structure at 
least thirty (30) days before said assessment or change is to take place. 
 
E. Any Association member may request, upon thirty (30) days written notice 
to the Association and the County to cease deducting Association membership 
dues and/or uniform assessments from his or her wages. The County shall 
forward a copy of an Association member’s request to cease deductions to 
the Association. 
 
F. The County will have Association deduction checks made up and available 
to the Association within ten (10) working days after each pay day. 
 
G. The County will provide three (3) check-off blocks (i.e., in addition to 
dues deductions) on its form which the Union may utilize for uniform 
assessments and/or voluntary deductions. 
 
ARTICLE 6 
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
 
A. In a mutual effort to provide harmonious working relationships between 
the parties to this Agreement, it is agreed to and understood by both 
parties that the following shall be the sole procedure for the resolution 
of grievances arising between the parties as to the interpretation of and 
application of the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
B. A "grievance" shall be defined as any dispute arising concerning the 
application or interpretation of this Agreement (including the rules 
referenced in Article 4). A class grievance (general grievance) shall be 
defined as any dispute which concerns two or more employees within the 
Bargaining Unit. Class grievances shall be filed at Step 2 of the grievance 
process below within seven (7) calendar days of the occurrence or knowledge 
giving rise to the alleged grievance. 
 
C. Grievances shall be processed in accordance with the following 
procedure: 
 
STEP 1: In the event that an employee believes there is a basis for a 
grievance the aggrieved employee shall first discuss the alleged grievance 
with his/her immediate supervisor within seven (7) calendar days of the 
occurrence or knowledge giving rise to the alleged grievance. 

 
STEP 2: If, as a result of the informal discussion with the immediate 
supervisor, an alleged grievance still exists, the aggrieved employee 
and/or the Association may file a formal grievance on the form set forth in 
Appendix "B" signed by the aggrieved employee and/or a representative of 
the Association containing all known facts supporting the alleged grievance 
and specifying which part of this Agreement is alleged to be violated with 
his/her Division Director within seven (7) calendar days after the 
immediate supervisor's response is received or is due. The Division 
Director shall respond in writing to the employee with a copy to the 
Association within seven (7) calendar days. 
 
STEP 3: If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 2, 
the aggrieved employee and/or the Association may appeal the grievance by 
submitting a copy of the grievance on the grievance form contained in 
Appendix "B" to the appropriate Department Director within seven (7) 
calendar days after the Division Director's response is received or is due. 
The Department Director shall respond in writing to the employee with a 
copy to the Association within seven (7) calendar days. 
 
STEP 4: If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 3, 
the aggrieved employee and/or the Association may appeal the grievance by 
submitting a copy of the grievance on the grievance form contained in 
Appendix "B" to the County Administrator or designee within seven (7) 
calendar days after the Department Director's response is received or is 
due. The County Administrator or designee shall respond in writing to the 
employee with a copy to the Association within fourteen (14) calendar days. 
 
D. At any step in the grievance procedure, the individual charged with 
responding to the grievance, may elect to conduct a meeting to gather more 
information prior to responding to the grievance. Employees may have a 
representative present, if requested by the employee, at any step of the 
Grievance Procedure. An Association representative may be present at a 
meeting scheduled with a grievant to resolve a grievance. 
 
E. The time limits provided in this Article shall be strictly observed, 
unless extended by written agreement of the parties. Failure by the 
employee or the Association to observe the time limits for submission of a 
grievance at any step will automatically result in the grievance being 
considered abandoned. Failure by the County to respond to a grievance 
within the prescribed time limits will allow the aggrieved employee to 
advance the grievance to the next step. 
 
F. All responses required in Steps 2, 3, and 4 above shall be directed to 
the aggrieved employee with a copy furnished to the Association. In class 
grievances, the response will be directed to the Association. 
 
G. Adjustment of any grievance as described herein shall not be 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
H. The parties agree that the settlement of any grievance by the parties 
prior to the rendition of a decision by an arbitrator shall not constitute 
an admission that the contract has been violated nor shall such settlement 
constitute a precedent for the interpretation or application of the 
provisions of this Agreement. 
 
I. Nothing in this Article shall require the Association to process 

grievances for employees who are not members of the Association. 
 
J. The County's Civil Service grievance procedure shall not be available to 
unit members for processing grievances arising under this Agreement. 
Further, grievances may be filed concerning subjects which apply to and 
only to the extent they apply to members of the Bargaining Unit. 
 
K. A grieving employee may not partially accept and partially reject a 
disposition of his/her grievance. The employee must either accept or reject 
the disposition of his/her grievance, in its entirety. Thus, for example, 
if an employee grieves a termination, and is ordered reinstated without 
back pay at one of the steps of the grievance procedure, he/she may not 
accept the reinstatement and continue to grieve the loss of back pay, 
his/her only choices would be to accept the disposition of his/her 
grievance, or remain discharged and pursue the grievance further. 
 
L. Employees serving an initial probationary period shall have no right to 
utilize this grievance/arbitration procedure for any matter concerning 
discharge or other discipline. Employees who have completed an initial 
probationary period and are serving a promotional probationary period shall 
have no right to utilize this grievance/arbitration procedure for any 
matter concerning the rejection of their promotional probationary period. 
 
ARTICLE 7 
ARBITRATION 
 
A. If the decision of the County Administrator or designee has not 
satisfactorily resolved the grievance, the grievance may be submitted to 
arbitration by the Association for the grievant or by a non-member when the 
Union declines to process the grievance on the basis of non-membership 
alone, by filing a Request for Arbitration Panel with the Federal Mediation 
and Conciliation Services within fifteen (15) working days after the 
rendering of the decision, or the expiration of the time limit for 
rendering the decision by the County Administrator or designee, whichever 
occurs first with a copy furnished simultaneously to the County. The 
arbitrator shall be selected from a list of seven (7) provided by the 
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) by the method of 
alternate striking, unless the parties otherwise mutually agree to an 
arbitrator. The FMCS rules shall govern the arbitration proceedings. 
 
B. The parties shall bear equally the expenses of the arbitrator. Each 
party shall bear the expense of its own witnesses, representatives, 
attorneys and all other individual expenses, including court reporting. 
Grievant(s) and employees testifying during working hours will be made 
available for the period of their testimony without loss of pay. 
Grievant(s) and employees will be called in such a fashion so as to limit 
their time away from work and not to disrupt the normal business of his/her 
department. 
 
C. The Arbitrator shall render his/her decision no later than thirty (30) 
days after the conclusion of the final hearing unless otherwise agreed by 
the parties. Such decision shall be final and binding when in accordance 
with the jurisdictional authority under this Agreement. Copies of the award 
shall be furnished to both parties. 
 
D. The arbitrator shall be prohibited from modifying, changing, adding to 
or subtracting from the terms of this Agreement or any supplementary 

