Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

26

Language English

Country United States

State FL

Union OPEIU (Office and Professional Employees International Union) AFL-CIO

Local

Local 100, Government Supervisors Association of Florida

Librarians 
Office and administrative support worker supervisors and managers 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Government Supervisors of Broward Co., FL
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 2000

EndYear

2002

Source

http://www.broward.org/hui04001.pdf

Original_format
Notes

PDF (unitary)

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

BETWEEN

THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

AND

THE GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA 

OPEIU, AFL-CIO, LOCAL 100

BROWARD COUNTY PROFESSIONAL UNIT

OCTOBER 1, 2000, TO SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PREAMBLE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii

ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION OF THE ASSOCIATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

ARTICLE 2 - NON-DISCRIMINATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

ARTICLE 4 - APPLICABILITY OF RULES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

ARTICLE 5 - DUES DEDUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

ARTICLE 8 - LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

ARTICLE 9 - ASSOCIATION REPRESENTATIVES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

ARTICLE 10 - DISCIPLINARY ACTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

ARTICLE 11 - WAGES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

ARTICLE 12 - PREVAILING BENEFITS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

ARTICLE 13 - HOURS OF WORK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

ARTICLE 14 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

ARTICLE 15 - INSURANCE BENEFITS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY, LAYOFFS, RECALL, & REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS . . . . . . 27

ARTICLE 17 - PROMOTION POLICY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

ARTICLE 18 - SAFETY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

ARTICLE 19 - PERSONAL VEHICLE COMPENSATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 20 - SEVERABILITY CLAUSE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

ARTICLE 21 - ANNUAL LEAVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

ARTICLE 22 - HOLIDAYS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

ARTICLE 23 - SICK LEAVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

ARTICLE 24 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

ARTICLE 25 - CIVIL LEAVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

ARTICLE 26 - MILITARY LEAVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42

ARTICLE 27 - OVERTIME . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

ARTICLE 28  - RE-OPENER CLAUSE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

ARTICLE 29 - CONTINUING EDUCATION AND TRAINING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

ARTICLE 30 - SUBCONTRACTING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

ARTICLE 31 - LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

ARTICLE 32 - TERM OF AGREEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

SIGNATURE PAGE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

APPENDIX A - PAY PLAN

APPENDIX B - GRIEVANCE FORM

PROFESSIONAL

PREAMBLE

It is the intention of this Agreement to provide for salaries, fringe benefits and other

terms and conditions of employment of employees covered by this Agreement except as

otherwise provided by Federal and State Constitution, State Statute, or County Charter. It is

further the intention of this Agreement to prevent interruption of work and interference with the

efficient operation of the County and to provide an orderly, prompt, peaceful, and equitable

procedure for the resolution of grievances and the promotion of harmonious relations between

the County and the Association.

-iii-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION OF THE ASSOCIATION

The County recognizes the Government Supervisors Association of Florida, OPEIU,

Local 100, ("Association") which has been certified, by the Florida Public Employee Relations

Commission, Certification Number 1289, as the sole and exclusive representative of the

employees within the Bargaining Unit, as described pursuant to PERC Case No. EL-2000-

013, and as amended by mutual agreement of the parties for the purpose of collective

bargaining with respect to wages, hours of employment, and other terms and conditions of

employment.  References to “Professionals” in this Agreement will include all Bargaining Unit

members.

INCLUDED: All  full-time  regular  professional  employees  of  the  Broward  County
Board  of  County  Commissioners  in  the  classifications  set  forth  in
Appendix A.

EXCLUDED:

All other employees including temporary, "will call" employees,
supervisory employees with the level or position of section head,
assistant directors and division and department directors, all
employees  presently  represented  by  a  certified  bargaining
representative,  managerial  and  confidential  employees  as
defined by Chapter 447, Part II, Florida Statutes, and supervisory
professional  and  non-professional  employees  (as  listed  in
attachment A and B to EL-2000-013.

Whenever the County establishes a new job classification which it believes is appropriately

included within this Bargaining Unit, the County will advise the Union of the official class title

and pay range.  If the Union disagrees with the inclusion of the classification in the Bargaining

Unit, that classification will not be included in the unit and their party may refer this issue to the

Public Employees Relations Commission.

-1-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 2 - NON-DISCRIMINATION

It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination against any employee covered by this

Agreement because of race, color, sex, creed, national origin, marital status, age, disability,

sexual orientation, political affiliation or belief, religion or religious belief, membership in the

Association,  or  engaging  in  any  lawful  Association  activities,  or  lack  of  Association

membership or activity.

-2-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

It is understood that the County has the right to operate County Government.  In order

to accomplish the mission of Broward County Government, management will necessarily

accomplish the following, subject to provisions of this Agreement:

A.

discipline, demote, suspend, or discharge an employee or class of employees

for just cause;

B.

C.

D.

E.

hire, promote, retain, and evaluate employees;

layoff employees because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons;

determine what reasonable work activities are performed;

supervise and direct its employees consistent with the mission of Broward

County Divisions of County Government;

F.

hold employees of the Bargaining Unit to a high standard of conduct consistent

with their positions as professionals and agents of the County;

G.

H.

determine unilaterally the purpose of the Divisions;

exercise control and discretion over the organization and operation of Broward

County Divisions of County Government;

I.

exercise those rights, powers, and authorities which the County legitimately

exercised prior to this Agreement;

J.

fulfill its legal responsibilities wherever such is not inconsistent with the terms

of this Agreement;

K.

set standards of service to be provided to the public, including the right to

subcontract.

-3-

PROFESSIONAL

The County has the right to formulate, change, or modify reasonable rules, regulations,

and procedures related to operations, except that no rule, regulation, or procedure shall be

formulated, changed, or modified in a manner contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.

-4-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 4 - APPLICABILITY OF RULES

Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement,  the  Civil  Service  Rules,

Administrative Orders and other Rules and Regulations of   Broward County, as they currently

exist or are amended or promulgated by the County Commission or Administrator, shall apply.

Where the Civil Service Rules, Administrative Orders and other Rules and Regulations of

Broward County conflict with the terms of this Agreement, this Agreement shall prevail.

-5-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 5 - DUES DEDUCTION

The County, where so authorized and directed in writing by an individual employee

included in the Bargaining Unit on the Authorization and Deduction Form properly executed

by  the  individual  employee,  will  deduct  that  individual's  Association  membership  dues.

Uniform assessments, defined as an across-the-board assessment levied uniformly on all

Association members, will be deducted from the wages of employees as soon as possible

following  written  authorization  from  the  Association.    The  deductions  are  subject  to  the

following terms and conditions:

A.

The County shall deduct from employee wages on each and every pay period,

the Association membership dues or defined uniform assessments.

B.

The County shall not, under any circumstances, deduct from the employee's

wages any fines, penalties or special assessments.

C.

The Association shall indemnify and hold harmless the County including its

agents and employees from any and all claims, demands, suits (including any and all court

costs), or expenses and costs in connection therewith based upon the County's participation

in dues deductions or the deduction of uniform assessments.

D.

It shall be the responsibility of the Association to notify the County in writing of

any uniform assessments or changes in the dues structure at least thirty (30) days before said

assessment or change is to take place.

E.

Any Association member may request, upon thirty (30) days written notice to the

Association and the County to cease deducting Association membership dues and/or uniform

-6-

PROFESSIONAL

assessments from his or her wages.  The County shall forward a copy of an Association

member’s request to cease deductions to the Association.

F.

The County will have Association deduction checks made up and available to

the Association within ten (10) working days after each pay day.

G.

The County will provide three (3) check-off blocks (i.e., in addition to dues

deductions) on its form which the Union may utilize for uniform assessments and/or voluntary

deductions.

-7-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 6 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

A.

In a mutual effort to provide harmonious working relationships between the

parties to this Agreement, it is agreed to and understood by both parties that the following

shall be the sole procedure for the resolution of grievances arising between the parties as to

the interpretation of and application of the provisions of this Agreement.

B.

A "grievance" shall be defined as any dispute arising concerning the application

or interpretation of this Agreement.  A class grievance (general grievance) shall be defined

as any dispute which concerns two or more employees within the bargaining unit.  Class

grievances shall be filed at Step 2 of the grievance process below within seven (7) calendar

days of the occurrence or knowledge giving rise to the alleged grievance.

C.

Grievances shall be processed in accordance with the following procedure:

STEP 1:

In the event that an employee believes there is a basis for a grievance the

aggrieved  employee  shall  first  discuss  the  alleged  grievance  with  the

immediate supervisor within seven (7) calendar days of the occurrence or

knowledge giving rise to the alleged grievance.

STEP 2:

If, as a result of the informal discussion with the immediate supervisor, an

alleged grievance still exists, the aggrieved employee and/or the Association

may  file a formal grievance on the form set forth in Appendix "B" signed by the

aggrieved employee and/or a representative of the Association containing all

known facts supporting the alleged grievance and specifying which part of this

Agreement is alleged to be violated with his/her Division Director within seven

(7) calendar days after the immediate supervisor's response is received or is

-8-

PROFESSIONAL

due.  The Division Director shall respond in writing to the employee with a copy

to the Association within seven (7) calendar days.

STEP 3:

If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 2, the aggrieved

employee and/or the Association may appeal the grievance by submitting a

copy of the grievance on the grievance form contained in Appendix "B" to the

appropriate  Department  Director  within  seven  (7)  calendar  days  after  the

Division Director's response is received or is due.  The Department Director

shall respond in writing to the employee with a copy to the Association within

seven (7) calendar days.

STEP 4:

If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 3, the aggrieved

employee and/or the Association may appeal the grievance by submitting a

copy of the grievance on the grievance form contained in Appendix "B" to the

County Administrator or designee within seven (7) calendar days after the

Department  Director's  response  is  received  or  is  due.  The  County

Administrator or designee shall respond in writing to the employee with a copy

to the Association within fourteen (14) calendar days.

D.

At any step in the grievance procedure, the individual charged with responding

to  the  grievance,  may  elect  to  conduct  a  meeting  to  gather  more  information  prior  to

responding to the grievance.  Employees may have a representative present, if requested by

the employee, at any step of the Grievance Procedure.  An Association representative may

be present at a meeting scheduled with a grievant to resolve a grievance.

-9-

PROFESSIONAL

E.

The time limits provided in this Article shall be strictly observed, unless extended

by written agreement of the parties.  Failure by the employee or the Association to observe

the time limits for submission of a grievance at any step will automatically result in the

grievance being considered abandoned. Failure by the County to respond to a grievance

within the prescribed time limits will allow the aggrieved employee to advance the grievance

to the next step.

F.

All responses required in Steps 2, 3, and 4 above shall be directed to the

aggrieved employee with a copy furnished to the Association.  In class grievances, the

response will be directed to the Association.  

G.

Adjustment of any grievance as described herein shall not be inconsistent with

the provisions of this Agreement.

H.

The parties agree that the settlement of any grievance by the parties prior to the

rendition of a decision by an arbitrator shall not constitute an admission that the contract has

been  violated  nor  shall  such  settlement  constitute  a  precedent  for  the  interpretation  or

application of the provisions of this Agreement.

I.

Nothing in this Article shall require the Association to process grievances for

employees who are not members of the Association.

J.

The County's Civil Service grievance procedure shall not be available to unit

members for processing grievances arising under this Agreement.  Further, grievances may

be filed concerning subjects which apply to and only to the extent they apply to members of the

bargaining unit.

-10-

PROFESSIONAL

K.

A grieving employee may not partially accept and partially reject a disposition

of his/her grievance.  The employee must either accept or reject the disposition of his/her

grievance, in its entirety.  Thus, for example, if an employee grieves a termination, and is

ordered reinstated without back pay at one of the steps of the grievance procedure, he/she

may not accept the reinstatement and continue to grieve the loss of back pay, his/her only

choices would be to accept the disposition of his/her grievance, or remain discharged and

pursue the grievance further.

L.

Employees serving an initial probationary period shall have no right to utilize this

grievance/arbitration procedure for any matter concerning discharge or other discipline.

Employees who have completed an initial probationary period and are serving a promotional

probationary period shall have no right to utilize this grievance/arbitration procedure for any

matter concerning the rejection of their promotional probationary period.

M.

Performance Evaluations, separations due to reduction in force, complaints

involving appeals from examination ratings, and classification decisions are not subject to

review through this grievance procedure.

-11-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 7 - ARBITRATION

A.

If the decision of the County Administrator or designee has not satisfactorily

resolved the grievance, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration by the Association for

the grievant or by a non-member when the Union declines to process the grievance on the

basis of non-membership alone, by filing a Request for Arbitration Panel with the Federal

Mediation and Conciliation Services within fifteen (15) working days after the rendering of the

decision,  or  the  expiration  of  the  time  limit  for  rendering  the  decision  by  the  County

Administrator or designee, whichever occurs first with a copy furnished simultaneously to the

County.  The arbitrator shall be selected from a list of seven (7) provided by the Federal

Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) by the method of alternate striking, unless the

parties otherwise mutually agree to an arbitrator.  The FMCS rules shall govern the arbitration

proceedings.

B.

The parties shall bear equally the expenses of the arbitrator.  Each party shall

bear the expense of its own witnesses, representatives, attorneys and all other individual

expenses, including court reporting.  Grievant(s) and employees testifying during working

hours will be made available for the period of their testimony without loss of pay.  Grievant(s)

and employees will be called in such a fashion so as to limit their time away from work and not

to disrupt the normal business of the department.

C.

The Arbitrator shall render his decision no later than thirty (30) days after the

conclusion of the final hearing unless otherwise agreed by the parties.  Such decision shall be

final and binding when in accordance with the jurisdictional authority under this Agreement.

Copies of the award shall be furnished to both parties.

-12-

PROFESSIONAL

D.

The  arbitrator  shall  be  prohibited  from  modifying,  changing,  adding  to  or

subtracting  from  the  terms  of  this  Agreement  or  any  supplementary  written  approved

amendment entered into mutually by the parties.

-13-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 8 - LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

A.

Labor Management Committee meetings within each Department may be held

in accordance with this Article to promote communications and cooperation between the

Association and the County, to explore avenues to improve quality and efficiency and to seek

objectives of mutual concern.  Time off without loss of pay, as necessary, shall be granted to

employees  designated  as  Committee  members  for  attendance  at  scheduled  Labor

Management Committee Meetings.  Meetings under this Article shall be scheduled at the

request of either party at a mutually agreeable time and location during normal working hours

(Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.), unless otherwise agreed by the Committee.

 Employees shall not be compensated for off-duty attendance.

B.

The composition of Departmental Labor Management Committees shall consist

of one (1) employee member designated by the Association, the respective Departmental

Association Representative and the Chief Association Representative and three (3) members

designated by the County including a representative of the Human Resources Division.

Resource people and subject matter experts may attend Committee meetings upon the mutual

agreement of the Committee members.

C.

The Labor Management Committee is not an employee organization under

Florida Statute Chapter 447.  The Committee shall not serve in a representative capacity nor

as  an  extension  of  the  collective  bargaining  process.    Committee  meetings  are  not  a

substitute for collective bargaining.  However, the Committee is free to discuss any subject

except any pending disciplinary actions, grievances or subjects of collective bargaining.

-14-

PROFESSIONAL

D.

The  Committee  may  make  recommendations,  however,  it  shall  have  no

independent authority to implement or amend policies, rules, procedures or practices.   Before

any  recommendations  can  be  made  by  the  Committee,  the  Committee  must  reach  a

consensus and reduce the recommendation to writing.  Written Committee recommendations

shall be submitted to the Director of Human Resources who will be responsible for reviewing

the recommendation with the appropriate County authority.

-15-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 9 - ASSOCIATION REPRESENTATIVES

A.

The County agrees to recognize one (1) Bargaining Unit representative and one

(1) alternate from each department in which Bargaining Unit employees work for the purpose

of contract administration as set forth in this Article.

The County also agrees to recognize one (1) of the Department Representatives as

the Chief Association Representative.  The Chief Association Representative may perform

representational responsibilities outside of his or her department in the event a Departmental

Representative is unavailable.

B.

The names of employees selected as departmental representatives shall be

certified,  in  writing,  to  the  County  Division  of  Human  Resources  and  the  appropriate

Department Director by the Association.

C.

It is agreed to and understood by the parties to this Agreement that Employee

Association  Representatives  may,  without  loss  of  pay,  and  with  prior  approval  of  their

supervisor, attend pre-disciplinary meetings, grievance meetings, and labor - management

committee meetings which arise from within the representative's Department.  Departmental

representatives or their alternates may also participate in collective bargaining negotiations.

The supervisor's approval to attend any such meetings shall not be unreasonably withheld.

D.

It  is  agreed  to  and  understood  by  the  Association  that  Association

Representatives shall process grievances and conduct their other duties in such a manner as

to not disrupt normal County activities, work production and services.

E.

Conducting Association business or distributing  Association literature, shall not

be done in work areas during work time.  However, Association business may be conducted

-16-

PROFESSIONAL

or literature may be distributed and/or posted on the bulletin board space provided herein

during lunch periods.

F.

Association  Representatives,  i.e.,  Non-employee  Association  Business

Representatives, shall be certified, in writing, to the County Division of Human Resources by

the Association.  Non-Employee Association Business Representatives shall, upon arrival at

a County Division or premises, report to the Division Director or the supervisor in charge.  The

Association agrees that activities by the Association Representatives shall be carried out in

such a manner as not to disrupt normal Departmental activities, work production and services.

G.

The County shall provide bulletin board space in each Division for the posting

of Association notices and newsletters.  All notices or newsletters of the Association that are

to be posted must be submitted to the appropriate Division Director for approval.

H.

The County, upon request of the Association, shall provide up to three (3) times

per year, at no cost to the Association, up to two (2) computer generated Bargaining Unit

membership rosters.

I.     Within thirty (30) days of the complete execution of this Agreement, the County shall

provide the Association with one copy of the final Agreement on a computer disk format as

normally maintained by the County. 

-17-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 10 - DISCIPLINARY ACTION

A.    Non-probationary, permanent employees may be disciplined only for just cause.

B.      The County supports the utilization of a progressive disciplinary system, when

applicable, which uses both informal and formal methods.  Nothing herein precludes the

County from taking severe formal disciplinary action including termination on the first offense

based on the severity of the violation.  Informal methods such as verbal and written counseling,

warnings, and reprimands shall not be grievable.  Formal disciplinary action, including formal

written reprimands (BC102-111), suspension without pay, demotion for cause, or dismissal

for cause, are appealable under the provision of Article 6 (Grievance Procedures).  Only

appeals of suspensions without pay, demotions, or dismissals may be arbitrated under the

provisions of Article 7 (Arbitration).

C.

Whenever  the  County  believes  that  an  employee  has  violated  any  rule,

regulation, or policy, or is otherwise subject to disciplinary action, the County will conduct a

pre-disciplinary meeting with the employee to discuss the possible violation. The employee

shall have the right to representation in discussions during pre-disciplinary inquiries.  If

necessary  the  pre-disciplinary  meeting  will  be  delayed  up  to  24  hours  in  order  for  the

employee to obtain a representative, if requested.

D.

A pre-determination investigatory meeting shall be conducted by the manager

responsible  for  making  the  disciplinary  recommendation.    Prior  to  any  pre-disciplinary

meetings and upon request of the employee or Association, the County shall provide to the

employee  and/or  the  Association  all  documentation  in  the  County’s  possession  and

-18-

PROFESSIONAL

reasonably  known  relating  to  the  potential  disciplinary  matter.    Nothing  herein  shall  be

construed to limit the County from raising additional information relating to the matter. 

E.

The County agrees to furnish the employee and the Association with a copy of

any disciplinary action notification at the time the notice is issued.  The notice of disciplinary

action  shall  contain  allegations  of  specific  rules  or  regulations  allegedly  violated  by  the

employee.  The County agrees that notices of disciplinary action for which there have been

no recurrences of the same nature in twenty-four (24) months, shall not be used to support

more severe progressive disciplinary action.  However, the notices remain a part of the

employee’s permanent employment history, consistent with Florida Statutes.

F.

To the extent practicable, disciplinary meetings shall be scheduled during the

employee’s normal work hours and held in their work location when feasible.

G.

The  concerned  Department/Division  may  grant,  at  its  sole  discretion,  the

request  of  an  employee  to  forfeit  accrued  annual  leave  in  lieu  of  serving  a  disciplinary

suspension.  Employees who are offered this option and accept, shall waive their right to file

a grievance through the process described in Article 6.

-19-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 11 - WAGES

A.

Fiscal Year 2000/2001

1.

Effective October 1, 2000, all pay range minimum and maximum rates

of pay will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as reflected in Appendix "A1."

2.

The  County  agrees  to  retain  its  current  performance  based

compensation consistent with the Leadership Performance Review Program.   For Fiscal

Year 2000/2001, effective on their  anniversary date, eligible bargaining unit employees with

performance that meets or exceeds expectations will receive a five percent (5%) increase

within range. Bargaining unit employees with performance that exceeds expectations will be

eligible for bonus consideration, subject to budgetary restraints.

3.

Those employees below the maximum of the pay range and limited to

an increase of less than five percent (5%) to their base hourly pay due to the maximum of the

pay range, shall receive a one-time cash gross lump sum amount equal to the difference

between five percent (5%) and the percentage increase received (such gross lump sum

payments shall be rounded to the nearest dollar).  Those employees receiving a full five

percent (5%)  increase to their base hourly rate will not be eligible for a lump sum payment.

 For those employees whose base hourly rate is at or above the maximum rate of their pay

range as of their anniversary date, will not be eligible for a base hourly adjustment as provided

in Section A.2 above.  Rather, such employees will receive a one-time cash gross lump sum

amount equal to five percent (5%) of the employee’s base hourly rate.

4.

Effective within thirty (30) days of the signing of this Agreement, for Fiscal

Year 2000/2001, bargaining unit employees will be eligible to participate in the Unrepresented

-20-

PROFESSIONAL

Supplemental Compensation Policies except for #5 (Automobile Allowance) and # 8 (County

Administrator Salary Adjustment Authority), as approved by the Broward County Commission.

It should be noted that #7 (Annual Leave Cash-Out - $4,000) replaces both the Educational

Expense and Computer Purchase Annual Leave cash-out ($1,800 each) policies.  Bargaining

unit employees will only be eligible for the current unrepresented Annual Leave Cash-out

policy, and may not participate in either that Educational Expense and/or the Computer

Purchase Annual Leave cash-out. 

B.

Fiscal Year 2001/2002

1.

Effective October 1, 2001, all pay range minimum and maximum rates

of pay will be adjusted upward five percent (5%), as reflected in Appendix "A2."

2

The  County  agrees  to  retain  its  current  performance  based

compensation consistent with the Leadership Performance Review Program.   For Fiscal

Year 2001/2002, effective on their  anniversary date, eligible bargaining unit employees with

performance that meets or exceeds expectations will receive a five percent (5%) increase

within range.  Bargaining unit employees with performance that exceeds expectations will be

eligible for bonus consideration, subject to budgetary restraints. 

3.

Those employees below the maximum of the pay range and limited to

an increase of less than five percent (5%) to their base hourly pay due to the maximum of the

pay range, shall receive a one-time cash gross lump sum amount equal to the difference

between five percent (5%) and the percentage increase received (such gross lump sum

payments shall be rounded to the nearest dollar).  Those employees receiving a full five

percent (5%)  increase to their base hourly rate will not be eligible for a lump sum payment.

-21-

PROFESSIONAL

 For those employees whose base hourly rate is at or above the maximum rate of their pay

range as of their anniversary date, will not be eligible for a base hourly adjustment as provided

in Section A.2 above.  Rather, such employees will receive a one-time cash gross lump sum

amount equal to five percent (5%) of the employee’s base hourly rate.

4.

For Fiscal Year 2001/2002, bargaining unit employees will be eligible

to participate in the Unrepresented Supplemental Pay Policies, as approved by the Broward

County Commission for Fiscal Year 2001/2002. 

C.

Bargaining Unit employees with performance that does not meet expectations

will not be eligible to receive the five percent (5%) increase or consideration for bonuses.

Such employees will be placed on a formal Corrective Action Plan with a time duration within

ninety (90) calendar days.   At the conclusion of the Corrective Action Plan time frame,

employees will receive a special evaluation and those employees  with performance that at

least  meets  expectations  will    receive  the  five  percent  (5%)  increase  prospectively.

Employees with continued performance that does not meet expectations at the end of the

Corrective  Action  Plan  will  not  be  eligible  to  receive  the  five  percent  (5%)  increase

prospectively, and will have their employment status reviewed, which could include separation

of  employment,  demotion,  or  other  action,  consistent  with  the  provisions  of  Article  10

(Disciplinary Action).  Any such disciplinary action shall be grievable consistent with the

provisions of Article 6 (Grievance Procedure).

-22-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 12 - PREVAILING BENEFITS

All rights and working conditions enjoyed throughout the County by unit employees at

the present time and authorized by County Ordinance, Resolution, written directive of the

County Administrator, or by the Division of Human Resources which are not specifically

referred to in this Agreement shall not be changed by the County unless said rights and

working conditions interfere with the reasonable operational needs of the County, in which

case the County and the Association shall negotiate over the impact of such changes.

-23-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 13 - HOURS OF WORK

A.

The  regularly  scheduled  work  week  for  County  employees  subject  to  the

provisions of the FLSA (non-exempt), shall not exceed forty (40) hours in a seven (7) days

period beginning each Sunday at 12:01 a.m. through the following Saturday at midnight,

exclusive of scheduled unpaid lunch breaks.  The County agrees to notify the Association in

writing of proposed change(s) in the number of work week hours for full time employees at

least five (5) weeks prior to the proposed effective date of such change(s).  The Association

may request within twenty-one (21) working days of receipt of such notice, to meet and

discuss  with  the  County  prior  to  the  implementation  of  the  change(s).    The  County

Administrator, or his/her designee will review any proposed change(s) and the input of both

the Association and the County regarding the proposed change(s).  After such review, the

County Administrator or his/her designee will approve or disapprove the proposed change(s).

B.

Permanent shift assignments shall not be changed except after two (2)weeks

notice  and  where  feasible  four  (4)weeks  notice  to  the  affected  employee(s)  except  in

emergency situations.  Where operationally feasible, the County shall make every effort to

schedule consecutive days off.

C.

Each full-time employee regularly scheduled to work shifts of eight (8) hours per

day shall be entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute breaks; full-time employees regularly

scheduled to work shifts of ten (10) hours or more shall be entitled to two (2) paid twenty (20)

minute breaks.  There will be one break in the first half of the shift and one in the last half.

-24-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 14 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD

Consistent with the provisions of Article 4 of this Agreement, the Probationary Period

provisions of the Civil Service Rules and Regulations shall apply to Bargaining Unit members

except as otherwise provided in this Article.

A.

The probationary period for all initial appointments to positions covered by this

Agreement  shall  be  up  to  one  (1)  year  in  duration  subject  to  extension  or  rejection,  in

accordance with the Civil Service Rules and Regulations.  This provision shall apply whether

or not the selected candidate is a current County employee.

B.

After completion of an initial probationary period, the probationary period for all

appointments from one  Bargaining Unit position to another shall be up to six (6) months in

duration subject to extension or rejection, in accordance with the Civil Service Rules and

Regulations.

-25-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 15 - INSURANCE BENEFITS

The County agrees to provide insurance programs for unit employees on the same

terms and conditions available to other benefit eligible County employees including any

required increase or decrease in employee premiums.  The Association may appoint one

representative to participate without loss of pay in the County's Benefits Advisory Committee

and  reserves  the  right  to  submit  recommendations  to  the  County's  Division  of  Human

Resources through the Committee in reference to insurance benefit plans for unit employees.

-26-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY, LAYOFFS, RECALL,

AND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS

A.

Bargaining Unit Seniority is understood to mean an employee's most recent

date of continuous employment in a Bargaining Unit position so long as the employee has

been carried for payroll purposes as a regular employee.  Bargaining Unit Seniority will be

used for the purposes of layoff and recall.

B.

Time-in-Class Seniority is understood to mean an employee's most recent

date  of  continuous  employment  in  the  employee's  current  classification  so  long  as  the

employee has been carried for payroll purposes as a regular employee.  Time-in-Class

Seniority within the employee's work site will be used for scheduling vacations and overtime.

C.

Bargaining Unit and Time-in-Class Seniority will continue to accrue during all

types of County approved leave except for leave of absence without pay or layoff, for more

than thirty (30) days, which shall cause this date to be adjusted by the full length of the leave.

Leave of absence without pay or layoff, for periods less than thirty (30) days, shall not cause

the Bargaining Unit or Time-in-Class Seniority to be adjusted.

D.

Layoff is a separation initiated when management determines it is necessary

to abolish a position due to lack of work, lack of funds, organizational change, or for other

reasons not related to fault, delinquency, or misconduct, as determined by the County.

E.

In  the  event  it  is  necessary  to  reduce  the  work  force,  all  layoffs  shall  be

according to seniority.  An employee affected by a reduction in force shall have the right to

displace an employee with less Bargaining Unit Seniority in the same classification or in a

lower classification in the same class series in his/her Division.

-27-

PROFESSIONAL

F.

An employee who accepts a lower paid Bargaining Unit position in lieu of layoff

shall retain his/her rate of pay unless it exceeds the highest rate for the new class in which

case he/she shall be paid the maximum pay rate of the lower classification.

G.

All employees shall receive at least a two (2) weeks notice of layoff, or, in lieu

of notice, two (2) weeks pay at his or her regular rate of pay.  The Association shall be

furnished copies of all layoff notices at the same time as the laid-off employee receives notice.

H.

Employees who have been laid off will have recall rights not to exceed  eighteen

(18) months.  Names of affected employees will be placed, in order of seniority, on a recall list

for the job classification from which employee(s) were laid off.  When a vacancy occurs for

which there is a recall list, the Division of Human Resources will send a certified letter of notice

to the most senior employee at the last address he/she filed with the Division of Human

Resources.  If the employee refuses to return to work in the classification for which he/she is

recalled, or if there is no response within ten (10) working days after the notice is sent, such

employee's recall rights under this Agreement are lost.  Such employee would still be eligible

for County employment but not on a preferential basis.

I.

For the purposes of layoff and recall, a vacancy is deemed to exist when the

County is seeking to fill a full-time regular budgeted position.

J.

Laid-off employees who are recalled to County service within the eighteen (18)

month recall period as provided for in Section H shall have the option to be credited with the

full sick leave accrual held at the time of layoff.  In order to be credited with the full sick leave

accrual held at the time of the layoff, the laid off employee must reimburse (“buy back”) their

sick  leave  payout  given  at  the  time  of  layoff.    Regardless  of  the  employee's  decision

-28-

PROFESSIONAL

concerning the "buy-back" of sick leave accrual, sick leave will begin to accrue on the date the

employee is returned to County service.  The recalled employee shall also be credited with

seniority earned prior to layoff.  However, the time spent on layoff, except for time spent on a

layoff for less than thirty (30) days, shall not be credited in the calculation of benefits.

K.

An employee covered by the collective bargaining agreement who leaves the

Bargaining Unit as a result of promotion or due to reduction in force, demotion, voluntary

demotion and returns to a Bargaining Unit position within six (6) month or the length of the

probationary period of the higher class, whichever is greater, shall retain Bargaining Unit

seniority accrued prior to the promotion.  Such an employee returning to a Bargaining Unit

position shall not accrue any Bargaining Unit seniority during the period of absence, and shall

be considered to have Bargaining Unit seniority equal to the seniority accrued as of the date

the employee was promoted.  An employee who returns to a Bargaining Unit position more

than six (6) months after leaving the Bargaining Unit or after the probationary period of a

higher classification, whichever is greater, shall not be credited with any prior Bargaining Unit

seniority and must commence a new seniority date.

-29-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 17 - PROMOTION POLICY

A.

It shall be the policy of Broward County to encourage promotion from within,

whenever feasible, consistent with qualified staffing and affirmative action goals, free of

political considerations, nepotism or other forms of unlawful favoritism or discrimination.

Promotional appointments shall not be grievable except in cases where the grieving party(s)

can substantiate that one of the above considerations resulted in such appointment .  If the

grieving party(s) pursues the grievance to arbitration and fails to prevail, the full expenses of

the arbitrator shall be borne by the grieving party(s).

The amount of salary increase granted upon promotion shall be 7.5% within range or

the minimum of the salary range for that new job classification, whichever is greater.  However,

the appointing authority shall have the ability to grant a promotional increase greater than

7.5% provided it is within the employee’s new salary range.

B.

There  shall  also  be  a  probationary  period  served  when  an  employee  is

promoted consistent with Article 14 (Probationary Period) of this Agreement.  If an employee

is  removed  during  the  probationary  period  following  a  promotion  for  failure  to  perform

satisfactorily the duties of the higher position, he or she shall be returned to the position held

prior to the promotion or to a similar position.  Should an appropriate vacancy not exist, the

employee shall be restored to the position held prior to the promotion and the provisions

governing reduction in force shall apply. A probationary promotional appointment does not

affect an employee's earned permanent status and rights in the County system acquired in

another position.  The promoted employee retains the right to bring a grievance under any

term or condition of employment specified in this Agreement except that no grievance may

-30-

PROFESSIONAL

be filed on his/her behalf relating to a management decision to return the employee to his/her

former or substantially equivalent position during the promotional probationary period.  During

the probationary period the said employee will be paid the appropriate higher classification

wage rate and will continue to receive said wage after completing his/her probationary period.

-31-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 18 - SAFETY

A.

County  Safety  Review  Board  -  In  accordance  with  Risk  Management's

Internal Control Handbook, the County shall have a Countywide Safety Review Board.  The

purpose of the Board shall be to monitor the overall performance of the County's Safety and

Loss Control programs and make recommendations to improve same.  This Bargaining Unit

will be entitled to three members on this Board.

B.

Division Safety Committee - Divisions will have either a safety representative

or safety committee, depending on the number of Bargaining Unit employees.  The number

of employees on the committee will be in proportion to the Bargaining Unit's representation

of the division's work force.  The purpose of the Committee will be to review, report, and make

recommendations on safety deficiencies.  The Committee will meet on a regular basis and

Bargaining Unit committee members will suffer no loss of pay.  All committee actions will be

documented and the County Safety Coordinator shall receive a copy of such documentation.

Meetings shall be held once quarterly, if necessary, at times and places mutually

agreed by the participants.

C.

Safety Shoes - Employees in classifications/positions where it is warranted,

will  receive  one  pair  of  safety  shoes  per  year.    The  County  Safety  Coordinator  will  be

responsible for deciding which positions receive safety shoes and his/her decision will be

based on the recommendation of the Division Safety Committee representative and his/her

interpretation of OSHA requirements.  Management shall determine the type and quality of

such shoes.

-32-

PROFESSIONAL

Those employees designated to receive shoes will receive an annually gross lump-sum

amount of $82.50, less any applicable taxes, payable on the first full pay period in January.

Such employees may purchase the shoes anywhere they wish so long as they meet

OSHA standards and they submit a receipt for proof and amount of purchase.  Employees in

positions designated to receive safety shoes are obligated to report to work each day in

safety shoes.

-33-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 19 - PERSONAL VEHICLE COMPENSATION

A.

The County, subject to authorization and in compliance with the rules covering

the use of private vehicles, agrees to compensate employees for the use of the individual's

vehicle while traveling on County business.

Such employees shall be reimbursed at the established County rate per mile

or applicable state rate whichever is greater, and in accordance with County policy for use of

said personal vehicle.

B.

In work areas where employee parking is available on County owned or leased

property, parking for Bargaining Unit employees shall be available on the same basis as it is

for other County employees on the same job site.  If any other County employees are directly

reimbursed for parking costs, unit employees at the same job site shall also be eligible for the

same reimbursement.  It is also understood that the County is not obligated to furnish, or

continue to provide, parking for its employees.

-34-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 20 - SEVERABILITY CLAUSE

If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any such provisions should be

rendered or declared invalid by any court action, or by reason of any existing or subsequently

enacted State or Federal legislation, the remaining parts or portions of this Agreement shall

remain in full force and effect and the subject matter of such invalid provision shall be open to

immediate negotiations between both parties.

-35-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 21 - ANNUAL LEAVE

Consistent  with  the  provisions  of  Article  4  of  this  Agreement,  the  Annual  Leave

provisions of the Civil Service Rules and Regulations shall apply to Bargaining Unit members

except as otherwise provided in this Article.

A.

For the purpose of scheduling annual leave, employees may at their option

submit a first and second preference vacation schedule to the Division on or before March 1st,

annually, with final adjustments submitted by March 15th, annually.  Except for emergency

situations, the employee with the greatest Time In Classification seniority within the job site

shall  be  granted  vacation  preference  subject  to  the  operational  needs  of  the  Division.

Employees will be notified of their approved vacation schedule by April 15th.

B.

Any 

leave 

request  submitted  other 

times  of 

the  year  will  be

approved/disapproved with reference to the operational needs of the Division and the existing

vacation schedule.  The completed vacation schedule and changes will be available for the

employee's information.

C.

Payment of Unused Leave - When an employee is separated  from County

Service, he/she shall be paid for all accrued and unused annual leave.

-36-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 22 - HOLIDAYS

Consistent with the provisions of Article 4 of this Agreement, the Holiday provisions of

the Civil Service Rules and Regulations shall apply to Bargaining Unit members except as

otherwise provided in this Article.

A.

In the event that employees supervised by members of this Bargaining Unit

observe a holiday by virtue of their collective bargaining agreement on a date other than that

which is designated by the County Commission for the general employee population, the

professional  members  of  the  GSA  shall  observe  the  holiday  on  the  same  date  as  the

employees they supervise in lieu of the date designated by the County Commission.

B.

An employee required to work on a holiday as described in Section A above

may elect to have the applicable number of hours of holiday pay added to their annual leave

bank in lieu of holiday pay.

C.

Full-time Bargaining Unit members assigned to a four day per week work

schedule generally work four 9 ½ hour days with a ½ hour time adjustment per day or portion

of a day actually worked, for a total of forty (40) hours per week.  Employees so assigned shall

receive ten (10) hours of paid leave for each holiday and two (2) personal days of the

employee's choice in the form of twenty (20) hours of annual leave.

-37-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 23 - SICK LEAVE

Consistent with the provisions of Article 4 of this Agreement, the Sick Leave provisions

of the Civil Service Rules and Regulations shall apply to Bargaining Unit members except as

otherwise provided in this Article.

A.

An employee shall be eligible after completion of the initial probationary period

to earn eight (8) hours of time off with pay (bonus day) if regularly scheduled on a 5 day work

week or 10 hours of time off with pay (bonus day) if regularly scheduled on a 4 day work week,

for each 13 pay period time frame in which no sick leave is used.  The 13 pay period time

frame begins with the last instance of sick leave.  The eight (8) or ten (10) hours of time (bonus

day) shall be added to the employees annual leave bank.  Usage of this leave time shall be

subject  to  the  Annual  Leave  provisions  of  this  Agreement.    The  County  shall  notify  the

employee in writing within three (3) weeks after the employee has earned a bonus day.

B.

If an employee is temporarily unable to perform his/her regularly assigned duties

as a result of illness or injury other than Worker's Compensation related, but is still able to

perform some type of restricted work, the employee may at the County's option be assigned

other work duties within the employee's physical capabilities for a period up to one hundred

twenty (120) days of his/her recuperation at the sole discretion of the County and subject to

the operational needs of the Department/Division.  Employees who may be assigned to

perform restricted work must provide a medical certificate from their physician  stating their

limitations and releasing the employee to perform the restricted work at the current rate of pay.

Such assignments are not an entitlement and, if granted, may be discontinued at any time at

the sole discretion of the County.

-38-

PROFESSIONAL

C.  Employees whose sick leave accrual balance exceeds 500 hours as of the end of

the first pay period in November of a given year are eligible to participate in the Sick Leave

Conversion Plan.  Only those hours beyond 500 total hours of accrued sick leave are eligible

for conversion.  Accrued sick leave hours considered for conversion may be converted to

Annual Leave at a ratio of two (2) sick leave hours to one (1) annual leave hour for a maximum

of forty (40) hours annual leave.  The converted hours shall be credited to the employee’s

annual leave bank during January of the following calendar year.

Employees interested in converting sick leave subject to the conditions of this section

must follow the procedures as provided by the Division of Human Resources.

Usage of sick leave converted to annual leave is subject to the provisions of Article 21

(Annual Leave) of this agreement.

-39-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 24 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

Consistent with the provisions of Article 4 of this Agreement, the Bereavement Leave

provisions of the Civil Service Rules and Regulations shall apply to Bargaining Unit members

except that employees shall be entitled to three (3) shifts off to attend the funeral of an

immediate family member within the state of Florida and five (5) shifts off to attend the funeral

of an immediate family member outside the state of Florida.

Any absence in excess of these amounts shall be charged to annual leave.  The

employee’s immediate family shall be defined as the employee’s spouse, father, mother, son,

daughter,  brother,  sister,  step-parent,  step-child,  step-sister,  step-brother,  grandfather,

grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law,

daughter-in-law,  brother-in-law,  sister-in-law,  registered  domestic  partner,    persons

determined in loco parentis (in the place of the parent) by the Director of Human Resources,

or any relative who is domiciled in the employee’s household.  Bereavement leave shall not

be charged to annual or sick leave or to compensatory time.

1.

The employee shall provide upon request of the department, division, or office

director sufficient proof of a death in his/her family as defined above before

compensation is approved and paid.

2.

The granting of bereavement leave for relatives not listed above shall require

the specific approval of the Director of Human Resources.

-40-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 25 - CIVIL LEAVE

Consistent with the provisions of Article 4 of this Agreement, the Civil Leave

provisions of the Civil Service Rules and Regulations shall apply to Bargaining Unit

members except as otherwise provided in this Article.

An employee shall be granted Civil Leave with pay when performing jury duty, when

subpoenaed to appear before any public body or commission on a job-related matter

when performing emergency civilian duty in connection with national defense, or when

serving as a volunteer firefighter in the employee’s response area.  An employee regularly

scheduled to work the evening or midnight shift may receive Civil Leave, as described

above, for their regularly scheduled shift when their court-ordered service occurs

immediately before or after their scheduled shift.  An employee subpoenaed in the line of

duty to represent the County shall either be paid per diem or travel expenses by the County

(and any fees received from the Court will be turned over to the County) or may retain

witness fees and mileage received from the Court.  Employees will be granted up to one

hour off on election days when it is not feasible to vote before or after working hours.  

-41-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 26 - MILITARY LEAVE

The County agrees to allow military leave for employees in the Bargaining Unit

pursuant to county, state, and federal law.

-42-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 27 - OVERTIME

The provisions of this Article apply only to those employees of the Bargaining Unit in

job classifications subject to the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.

A.

All hours authorized and worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a seven (7)

days work period shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half times the

employee's straight time hourly rate of pay.

B.

Compensatory Time - Compensatory hours may be substituted for

overtime due to funding considerations at management's option with concurrence of the

employee.  Compensatory hours are earned at the same rate as overtime, consistent with

Article 4 of this Agreement.  Compensatory hours and overtime cannot be earned in the

same workweek.  Employees may also request substitution of compensatory hours for

overtime pay, subject to the operational needs of the Division.

C.

Hours Counted as Hours Worked - The following hours, not actually

worked, shall count as hours worked for the sole purpose of computing eligibility for the

overtime rate:

1.

Holiday pay, as defined in Article 22, when the designated holiday is the

employee's normally scheduled workday and the employee is given the day off in

observance of the holiday.

2.

3.

Bereavement Leave hours as defined in Article 24.

Hours of paid Standby Duty Assignment as defined in Section I below when

an employee has used authorized Sick or Annual Leave during the scheduled work

week.

-43-

PROFESSIONAL

D.

Assignment of Prescheduled Overtime - The County agrees to prepare a

seniority list for each work site within a Department/Division.  The purpose of such list is to

coordinate and fairly distribute prescheduled overtime.  In the event that management

determines it necessary to assign prescheduled overtime, the most senior qualified

employee on the work site, who is in the needed classification and who normally performs

the assignment or work of the type and character of the needed overtime work, will be

given the opportunity to accept or reject the prescheduled overtime.  That employee will

thereafter be placed at the bottom of the list and shall not be offered prescheduled

overtime until all qualified employees at the work site, within the same classification, who

normally perform the required duties have been asked to work prescheduled overtime.  In

the event that all qualified employees in the affected classification, who normally performs

the assignment or work of the type and character of the needed overtime work, decline to

work prescheduled overtime the least senior qualified employee in the classification shall

be required to perform the overtime work.

However, the least senior qualified employee may be excused from being required

to perform prescheduled overtime if they present an excuse acceptable to the employee's

immediate supervisor.  In such event, the above process shall apply to the next senior

qualified employee, who shall be required to work the overtime.

The affected employee(s) will be advised of prescheduled overtime as soon as

practicable to allow the employee to make personal arrangements.

-44-

PROFESSIONAL

Prescheduled overtime which is requested half way, or more, into the regularly

scheduled shift for overtime needed the same day shall not cause the employee to lose

their position on the overtime list whether or not the overtime is accepted.

E.

Assignment of Emergency Overtime - If the County needs an employee

to work unscheduled overtime of an emergency nature, the County will nevertheless

attempt to follow the procedure outline in Section D above where, at the sole discretion of

the County, sufficient time exists to allow compliance with the procedure.  However, said

procedure shall not preclude the County from "holding over" employees to perform needed

emergency overtime; employees held over shall retain their position on the prescheduled

overtime seniority list. 

F.

When an employee is required to report to a County-approved physician for

a medical examination as a condition of employment, continued employment,  promotional

employment, or to determine fitness for duty, such examination will take place during the

employee's normal work schedule.  If the examination cannot be scheduled during the

employee's normal work schedule, the employee shall be compensated at straight time or

overtime rate, whichever applies.

G.

When an employee is scheduled to report to work on a day on which they are

normally off duty and is sent home for lack of work, they shall be entitled to five (5) hours

pay at straight time or overtime rate, whichever applies, as "show up" time, or actual time

worked if more than five (5) hours.

H.

Emergency Call Out:

-45-

PROFESSIONAL

1.

Call out pay is provided to compensate off duty employees required

to return to work on an unscheduled basis after completing a regularly assigned

shift.  Such employees shall be paid for the actual time worked with a minimum

guarantee of three (3) hours pay.  Should an employee receive a further

assignment(s) while on Emergency call out, and in the course of completing such

additional assignment(s) works beyond three (3) hours in total, they shall be paid for

the actual time worked (at the overtime rate of pay, if applicable).  In the context of

emergency call-out only, actual time worked starts at the time of notice and ends

when the employee would reasonably be expected to return home.

2.

Any employee who is: (a) required to report to work within two (2)

hours of his/her regularly scheduled starting time; (b) on duty and  instructed and

assigned to return to work; or (c) required to continue after completion of his/her

scheduled shift; shall be ineligible for the call-out pay minimum described above,

but eligible for compensation for the actual hours worked (at the overtime rate, if

applicable).

I.

Standby:

1.

In order to provide coverage for services during off-duty hours, it may

be necessary to assign and schedule employees to standby duty.  A standby duty

assignment determined and authorized by management requires an employee to

be available for work due to an urgent situation during the employee's off-duty time

-46-

PROFESSIONAL

which may include nights, weekends, or holidays.  Employees shall be required to

be on standby duty when assigned unless excused by their supervisor.

2.

Employees assigned to standby duty by management are guaranteed

two (2) hours standby duty pay at the straight-time base rate of pay for each regular

work day of standby duty assigned and scheduled; and three (3) hours at the

straight-time base rate for regularly scheduled days off.

3.

Employees while on standby duty, when called to work will, in addition

to the standby duty pay provided in paragraph "2" above, be paid as follows:  For

the initial call for each regular work day or regular day off of standby duty, the

employee will be paid for actual time worked with a minimum guarantee of two (2)

hours pay.  For all other calls during standby duty, the employee will be paid for

actual time worked.  For pay purposes, actual time worked starts at the time of

notice, and ends when he/she would reasonably be expected to return to home. 

The employee is expected to respond to the call in a reasonable amount of time

following notice.  In the event any employee who is on standby duty fails to respond

to a call to work he/she will forfeit the standby duty pay and may be subject to

possible disciplinary measures.

4.

Where operationally feasible, as determined by management,

standby duty assignments will be made on a weekly basis.

J.

Emergency Working Conditions:

-47-

PROFESSIONAL

Due to conditions beyond the control of the County, including but not

limited to things such as hurricanes, windstorms and tornados, if the County

Administrator declares an emergency and directs the County to begin

Emergency Operations, Bargaining Unit members shall be compensated as

described below:

1.

Any Bargaining Unit member regularly scheduled to work during the

declared emergency who is ordered by the County not to report, or to go home prior

to the completion of their shift will suffer no loss of pay.  Any Bargaining Unit

member who is on pre-approved sick leave, annual leave, or personal day before

the declared emergency will suffer no loss of pay and the applicable leave bank

shall not be deducted.  Such hours paid but not worked will not count as hours

worked for computing premium (time and one-half) overtime eligibility.

2.

Any Bargaining Unit member who is ordered, or assigned as a result

of volunteering, by the County to work during the declared emergency shall be

compensated at double their straight time base hourly rate for all hours actually

worked.  This compensation is in lieu of any other compensation.

-48-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 28 - RE-OPENER CLAUSE

By mutual consent of the parties, this Agreement may be re-opened with thirty (30)

days notice to discuss specific issues, which will be agreed upon mutually by both parties

prior to commencement of negotiations.

If the parties are unable to agree upon an amendment to this Agreement, then the

discussions shall cease and the parties will not utilize the Public Employee Relations Act

(PERA) statutory impasse resolution procedure.

-49-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 29 - CONTINUING EDUCATION AND TRAINING

A.

It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Human Resources to 

cooperate with the Division/Office Directors, Unit employees and others to foster and

promote programs of training for County service and in-service training of employees for

the purpose of improving the quality of personal service rendered to the public and of

aiding employees to equip themselves for advancement in the County service. 

Division/Office Directors will make every effort to grant an employee’s request to attend

County sponsored training, based on the operational needs of the Division or Office.

B.

To improve the quality of personal service rendered to the public and to aid

employees in equipping themselves for advancement, any regular, full-time employee may

request Educational Leave for the purpose of taking occupationally related courses or

training.  Requests for Educational Leave will be considered consistent with the

Educational Leave procedures established by the County.

C.

Employees covered by this Agreement may participate in the County's

Educational Reimbursement Program.  The eligibility requirements and the amount, type

and condition precedent to obtaining reimbursement, will be established by the County.

-50-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 30 - SUBCONTRACTING

Should the County enter into formal negotiations with a private entity, relative to the

possible takeover by the private entity of work currently being performed by the Bargaining

Unit members and which could result in the layoff or reassignment to another classification

in lieu of layoff of Bargaining Unit members, the County will advise the Union of such

negotiations, solicit the Union’s input through a Labor Management Committee (including

the possibility of internal competition regarding the future performance of the work by

County employees), and shall give such input serious and good faith consideration.  In no

event, shall such input delay the County’s pursuit of such services through the competitive

bidding process.  Nothing herein shall limit or restrict the County from its management

rights as set forth in Article 3 (Management Rights) and permitted pursuant to State

Statute.

-51-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 31 - LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING

The attached letter of understanding described below are part of the agreement and will

continue in effect throughout the term of this Agreement:

1.) November 27, 2000 -

re: Classification Pay Range Compaction Study

2.) November 27, 2000 -

re: Pilot Program - Association Representatives

-52-

PROFESSIONAL

ARTICLE 32- TERM OF AGREEMENT

A.

The  provisions  of  this  Agreement  shall  be  effective  for  the  fiscal  years

2000/2001, and 2001/2002, upon ratification of the Unit membership and approval of the

Board  of  County  Commissioners  for  Broward    County,  Florida,  except  as  otherwise

specifically provided in this Agreement, and as provided for in Section B below,  and shall

continue in force through September 30, 2002.  Thereafter, this Agreement shall remain in

effect,  except  for  any  provisions  which  specifically  expire  or  are  date  specific,  until  a

successor agreement is approved by the Board of Broward County Commissioners.

B.

For Fiscal Year 2001/2002, either party may notify the other by submitting a

written  intent  to  bargain,  not  less  than  sixty  (60)  days  prior  to  the  end  of  Fiscal  Year

2000/2001, that it desires to reopen the agreement for negotiation.  If such notice is made,

each  party  may  designate  up  to  three  (3)  non-economic  articles  that  do  not  effect

management rights, to be re-opened for re-negotiation.  These negotiations will not be subject

to the statutory impasse resolution procedure or any other procedure.

-53-

PROFESSIONAL

SIGNATURE PAGE

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement between the

Board of County Commissioners, Broward County, Florida and Government Supervisors

Association of Florida, OPEIU, AFL-CIO, Local 100, Broward County Professional Unit for

2000/2001,  and  2001/2002  to  be  executed  and  signed  by  their  duly  authorized

representatives, as of this _____ day of ______________, 2000.

GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS
ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA
OPEIU, AFL-CIO, LOCAL 100,
BROWARD COUNTY PROFESSIONAL
UNIT

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

By____________________________

By_____________________________

President

Commission Chairperson

By____________________________

By_____________________________

Bargaining Team Member

County Administrator

By____________________________

Bargaining Team Member

By_____________________________

Director of Human Resources

By____________________________

Bargaining Team Member

By_____________________________

Labor Relations Manager

By____________________________

Bargaining Team Member

By____________________________

Bargaining Team Member

-54-

PROFESSIONAL

November 27, 2000

Mr. Richard Ellis, President
Government Supervisors Association of Florida
225 E. Dania Beach Blvd - Suite 204
Dania, FL 33304

RE:

Letter of Understanding - Classification Pay Range Compaction Study

Dear Mr. Ellis:

The purpose of this letter is to document our mutual understanding of an agreement between
the County and the Government Supervisors Association, Professional Union, regarding the
conducting  of  classification  pay  range  compaction  studies  for  FY  2000/2001  and
FY2001/2002.

On or before February 1 of each year, the Association will provide the County with a list of five
(5) job classifications or two (2) job series, along with documents justifying  inclusion of the job
classes or series in the classification pay range compaction study.  The Association will also
provide a list of those classifications that are supervised by the Association classifications
which are believed to cause compaction.  The County agrees to conduct the studies and
present the results to the Association for review by August 1.  The County also agrees to meet
and discuss with the Association these results and possible implementation consistent with
County policies.  However, such discussions are not subjects of negotiations or the statutory
impasse procedures.  

Should the content of this letter accurately reflect our mutual understanding and intent of our
agreement, please indicate your concurrence by signing below.

Sincerely,

                                             
Phil Rosenberg, Director
Human Resources Division

                                                 

Richard Ellis, President
Government Supervisors Association

PR/kbk

PROFESSIONAL

November 27, 2000

Mr. Richard Ellis, President
Government Supervisors Association of Florida
225 E Dania Beach Blvd - Suite 204
Dania, FL 33304

RE: Pilot Program - Association Representatives

Dear Mr. Ellis:

This is a side letter accompanying the  tentative labor agreement between the County and the
Government Supervisors Association, Professional Bargaining Unit.  This letter sets forth our
mutual  understanding  as  to  the  creation  and  implementation  of  a  pilot  program  in  the
distribution  of  Association  Representatives  as  provided  in  Article  9  of  the  Collective
Bargaining Agreement.  The pilot program has the following components:

1.

2.

3.

Article 9 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between GSA and the County, which
expires on September 30, 2002,  will remain in place during the two (2)  year term of
the new Labor Agreement.

Notwithstanding the continuation of Article 9, the parties are in agreement that for the
first year of the new labor agreement (October 1, 2000,  through September 30, 2001),
the  following  amended  number  of  employee  representatives  shall  apply.    This
amended process will terminate on September 30, 2001, unless both parties agree
to  an  extension  or  modification.    Should  that  expiration  occur  the  Association
Representation procedure process in the Collective Bargaining Agreement will again
be operative.  

The amended Association Representatives process will allow for the recognization of
eight  (8)  bargaining  unit  representatives  including  one  designated  as  Chief
Association Representative.  These Employee Representatives shall be allowed to
represent the Association throughout County government with no limit on departmental
jurisdictions.    It  is  also  agreed  that  the  County  will  recognize  five  (5)  Alternate
Representatives from different departments in which bargaining unit employees  work
for exclusive representation within that department.  In no event, shall more than two
Employee Representatives or Alternates combined be from any one division of the

PROFESSIONAL

Mr. Richard Ellis
November 27, 2000
Page 2

4.

5.

County (excluding the Chief Association Representative).  These Representatives are
only recognized for the purpose of contract administration as forth in Article 9.

Employee Representatives or Alternates may, without loss of pay, and with prior
approval of their supervisor, attend pre-disciplinary meetings, process grievances, and
take  part  in  labor  management  committees  which  arise  from  within  the
Representatives’  assigned  Department.    Only  one  Employee  Representative  or
Alternate  will  be  present  at  any  such  meetings,  with  the  exception  of  Labor
Management Committee meetings.

At  all  times  in  the  exercise  of  union  representational  business,  Employee
Representatives  or  Alternates  should  do  their  utmost  to  avoid  disruptions  to  the
conduct of work assignments and will provide maximum notice to their supervisor of
their  need  to  be  absent  for  the  purposes  outlined  above.  The  Employee
Representatives  should  make  conscientious  and  good  faith  effort  to  reasonably
accommodate a request of their supervisor to modify specific time away from work
needs to aid the Division or Department in accomplishment of its mission without due
disruption.                                                                                                                       

It is the hope and belief of both parties that the changes outlined above in this pilot program
will allow for Association Representatives to represent employees in a more orderly and
productive manner.  The parties will consult with one another should it be necessary to amend
the foregoing provisions of the pilot program  by mutual agreement.  
If this letter accurately reflects our mutual understanding in this matter, please indicate by
signing below.

Sincerely,

                                                                
Phil Rosenberg, Director
Human Resources Division

                                                                

Richard Ellis, President
Government Supervisors Association

KBK/aw [a:\professional2.wpd]

PROFESSIONAL

                                       GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA

                                    APPENDIX A1 - PAY PLAN FY2000/2001 - EFFECTIVE 10/01/00
                             5% RANGE EXTENSION TO THE SALARY MINIMUMS AND MAXIMUMS
                                   BROWARD COUNTY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                        PROFESSIONAL BARGAINING UNIT

CLASS 
CODE

CLASSIFICATION TITLE

FLSA
CODE

SALARY
GRADE

HOURLY
MINIMUM

HOURLY
MAXIMUM

ANNUAL
MINIMUM

ANNUAL
MAXIMUM

*
*
*

*

*

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54

P1011
P1012
P1013
P0042
P0043
P2803
P2804
P2805
P3311
P2344
P7808
P8702
P3312
P1021
P1022
P9927
P5425
P6211
P6212
P6213
P6324
P6325
P6320
P6383
P6385
P6384
P5420
P2603
P6304
P6305
P2204
P2203
P2420
P2421
P5302
P5303
P2354
P2355
P2356
P6317
P3121
P3123
P3125
P5443
P5472
P5476
P5437
P6318
P6321
P6322
P6343
P2357
P6291
P6292

ACCOUNTANT I
ACCOUNTANT II
ACCOUNTANT III
ADMIN COORDINATOR I
ADMIN COORDINATOR II
ARTS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST I
ARTS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST II
ARTS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST III
ASSIST PLANNER
ASSIST REAL ESTATE OFCR
ASSIST SUPT OF TRANSP
ASSOC MEDICAL EXAM
ASSOC PLANNER
AUDITOR I
AUDITOR II
AVIATION BUSINESS SPECIALIST
BUILDING OFFICIAL
CHEMIST I
CHEMIST II
CHEMIST III
CHILD DEVEL SPEC I
CHILD DEVEL SPEC II
CHILD PROTECT TEAM COORD
CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST I
CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST II
CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST SUPV
CODE ENF ADMIN
COMMUNIC COORD
COMMUNITY DV SPEC I
COMMUNITY DV SPEC II
COMPUTER OPERATIONS AN
COMPUTER OPERATOR III
CONST ESTIMAT/SCHED MGR
CONSTRUCTION MGMT SPEC
CONSUMER REL ANALYST II
CONSUMER REL ANALYST III
CONTRACT/GRANT ADMN I
CONTRACT/GRANT ADMN II
CONTRACT/GRANT ADMN III
CRISIS INTERVENT CNSLR
ENGINEER I
ENGINEER II
ENGINEER III
ENVIR COMPL OFF III
ENVIR LICENSING SUPV
ENVIR PERMITTING SUPV
ENVIR PROJECT COORD
FAMILY THERAPIST I
FAMILY THERAPIST II
FAMILY THERAPIST III
GRANTS RESEARCH COORDINATOR
GRANTS RESEARCH SPECIALIST
HFA DEVEL COORD I
HFA DEVEL COORD II

N
E
E
N
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
E
E
N
N
E
N
N
E
E
E
N
E
N
N
E
E
E
E
N
E
E
N
N
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E

P0400
P1100
P2100
P0400
P0900
P1100
P2000
P2450
P0400
P2175
P1400
P4025
P1800
P1000
P2100
P1900
P2825
P0775
P1800
P2375
P0300
P0600
P2375
P0150
P0300
P0750
P2175
P2500
P0400
P1800
P1600
P0650
P2725
P1400
P0700
P1300
P0400
P0900
P1700
P0150
P1000
P2225
P2625
P2150
P2225
P2450
P2400
P0675
P1300
P2100
P2400
P0900
P1800
P2300

$13.0970
$15.9403
$18.4625
$13.0970
$14.9408
$15.9403
$17.9383
$20.9363
$13.0970
$18.9379
$16.4162
$34.8870
$17.4152
$15.1883
$18.4625
$17.3183
$24.9080
$14.1039
$17.4152
$19.9845
$12.4660
$13.4188
$19.9845
$11.5756
$12.4660
$13.7599
$18.9379
$21.4074
$13.0970
$17.4152
$16.3562
$13.7599
$23.7083
$16.4162
$14.5126
$15.9403
$13.0970
$14.9408
$16.9397
$11.5756
$15.1883
$18.4625
$22.5066
$17.9383
$18.4625
$20.9363
$20.4606
$13.7407
$15.9403
$18.4625
$20.4606
$14.9408
$17.4152
$19.4612

$20.3272
$23.6373
$27.3770
$20.3272
$22.1561
$23.6373
$26.6006
$31.0462
$20.3272
$28.0828
$24.3431
$59.8177
$25.8246
$23.5732
$27.3769
$25.9404
$36.9356
$21.8902
$25.8246
$29.6352
$19.8314
$20.9054
$29.6352
$18.4154
$19.8314
$21.8903
$28.0828
$31.7433
$20.3271
$25.8246
$25.3857
$21.3561
$35.1557
$24.3431
$21.5209
$24.2284
$20.3271
$22.1561
$25.7468
$18.4154
$23.5732
$28.7631
$33.3751
$27.9473
$28.7631
$31.0462
$30.3410
$21.4076
$24.2284
$27.3770
$30.3410
$22.1561
$25.8246
$28.8590

$27,241.00
$33,156.00
$38,402.00
$27,241.00
$31,077.00
$33,156.00
$37,312.00
$43,548.00
$27,241.00
$39,391.00
$34,146.00
$72,564.00
$36,224.00
$31,591.00
$38,402.00
$36,022.00
$51,809.00
$29,336.00
$36,224.00
$41,567.00
$25,930.00
$27,911.00
$41,567.00
$24,078.00
$25,930.00
$28,621.00
$39,391.00
$44,527.00
$27,241.00
$36,224.00
$34,021.00
$28,621.00
$49,313.00
$34,146.00
$30,186.00
$33,156.00
$27,241.00
$31,077.00
$35,235.00
$24,078.00
$31,591.00
$38,402.00
$46,814.00
$37,312.00
$38,402.00
$43,548.00
$42,559.00
$28,581.00
$33,156.00
$38,402.00
$42,559.00
$31,077.00
$36,224.00
$40,480.00

$42,280.00
$49,165.00
$56,944.00
$42,280.00
$46,085.00
$49,165.00
$55,329.00
$64,576.00
$42,280.00
$58,413.00
$50,634.00
$124,421.00
$53,715.00
$49,032.00
$56,944.00
$53,956.00
$76,826.00
$45,532.00
$53,715.00
$61,641.00
$41,249.00
$43,484.00
$61,641.00
$38,304.00
$41,249.00
$45,532.00
$58,413.00
$66,026.00
$42,280.00
$53,715.00
$52,802.00
$44,420.00
$73,124.00
$50,634.00
$44,764.00
$50,395.00
$42,280.00
$46,085.00
$53,553.00
$38,304.00
$49,032.00
$59,827.00
$69,420.00
$58,130.00
$59,827.00
$64,576.00
$63,109.00
$44,527.00
$50,395.00
$56,944.00
$63,109.00
$46,085.00
$53,715.00
$60,026.00

aw(a:paypaln00-01)     

PAGE 1

                                       GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA

                                    APPENDIX A1 - PAY PLAN FY2000/2001 - EFFECTIVE 10/01/00
                             5% RANGE EXTENSION TO THE SALARY MINIMUMS AND MAXIMUMS
                                   BROWARD COUNTY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                        PROFESSIONAL BARGAINING UNIT

CLASS 
CODE

CLASSIFICATION TITLE

FLSA
CODE

SALARY
GRADE

HOURLY
MINIMUM

HOURLY
MAXIMUM

ANNUAL
MINIMUM

ANNUAL
MAXIMUM

55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108

P6308
P3175
P3177
P2282
P2283
P2330
P3156
P3161
P4021
P4022
P4023
P4028
P4052
P6404
P5482
P5483
P5484
P7509
P4147
P4125
P4121
P4122
P4126
P3309
P6336
P3107
P3108
P3109
P3105
P2346
P6283
P6284
P2329
P2326
P2327
P2371
P2372
P2380
P2373
P2381
P6270
P6233
P6234
P6287
P6341
P2343
P2358
P5429
P2001
P6331
P6332
P6333
P2361
P2362

*

*

*

*

HOUSING FINANCIAL ADV
HYDROGEOLOGIST II
HYDROGEOLOGIST III
INFORM SYSTEMS AN II
INFORM SYSTEMS AN III
IWM EDUCATION COORD
LAND SURVEYOR (REG)
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
LIBRARIAN I
LIBRARIAN II
LIBRARIAN III
LIBRARY SPECIALIST III
MARKETING DEVELOP ASSOC
MOSQUITO CONTROL MGR
NATURAL RES SPEC I
NATURAL RES SPEC II
NATURAL RES SPEC III
PARKING COORD
PARKS & REC MGR III
PARKS ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC
PARKS NATURALIST I
PARKS NATURALIST II
PARKS STAFF ENVIRON SPEC
PLANNING ANALYST
PROGRAM DEVELOP SPEC
PROJECT MANAGER I
PROJECT MANAGER II
PROJECT MANAGER III
PROJECT SYSTEMS SCHEDULER
PROPERTY MANAGER ASSIST
PSYCHIATRIC NURSE I
PSYCHIATRIC NURSE II
PUBLIC EDUCATION COORD
PUBLICATIONS SPEC I
PUBLICATIONS SPEC II
PURCHASING AGENT I
PURCHASING AGENT II
PURCHASING AGENT II (TECH/CONST)
PURCHASING AGENT III
PURCHASING AGENT III (TECH/CONST)
QUALITY ASSURANCE COORD
REGISTERED NURSE I
REGISTERED NURSE II
REHAB THERAPIST SUPVR
RESOURCE DEVELOP COORD
REVIEW APPRAISER
SENIOR GRANTS RESEARCH SPEC
SENIOR ZON PLANS EXAM
SOCIAL SVCS TRANSP OFC
SOCIAL WORKER I
SOCIAL WORKER II
SOCIAL WORKER III
SPECIAL PROJ COORD I
SPECIAL PROJ COORD II

N
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
E
E
E
E
N
N
E
E
N
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
N
E
N
E
N
E
E
E
E
E
N
N
E
E
E
E
N
E
N
E
E
N
E

P0100
P2225
P2450
P2100
P2500
P2175
P2725
P2225
P0950
P1500
P2100
P1400
P0950
P2100
P1000
P2225
P2450
P0900
P2100
P0775
P0300
P0700
P1100
P0200
P1700
P2225
P2450
P2725
P2625
P1400
P2000
P2350
P1400
P0200
P0500
P0350
P1400
P1800
P2175
P2375
P2175
P1300
P2000
P0550
P2675
P1800
P1700
P1700
P2450
P0300
P0900
P1400
P0400
P0900

$11.2933
$18.4625
$20.9363
$18.4625
$21.4074
$18.9379
$23.7083
$18.4625
$15.4167
$16.9397
$18.4625
$16.4162
$15.4167
$18.4625
$15.1883
$18.4625
$20.9363
$14.9408
$18.4625
$14.1039
$12.4660
$14.5126
$15.9403
$11.8651
$16.9397
$18.4625
$20.9363
$23.7083
$22.5066
$16.4162
$17.9383
$19.4612
$16.4162
$11.8651
$13.7517
$12.7776
$16.4162
$17.4152
$18.9379
$19.9845
$18.9379
$15.9403
$17.9383
$13.0970
$23.0180
$17.4152
$16.9397
$16.9397
$20.9363
$12.4660
$14.9408
$16.4162
$13.0970
$14.9408

$17.9662
$28.7631
$31.0462
$27.3769
$31.7433
$28.0828
$35.1557
$28.7631
$22.8612
$25.1192
$27.3769
$24.3431
$22.8612
$27.3769
$23.5732
$28.7631
$31.0462
$22.1561
$27.3769
$21.8902
$19.8314
$21.5209
$23.6373
$18.4154
$25.7468
$28.7631
$31.0462
$35.1557
$33.3751
$24.3431
$26.6006
$29.5804
$24.3431
$18.4154
$20.3916
$19.8314
$24.3431
$25.8246
$28.0828
$29.6352
$28.0828
$24.2284
$26.6006
$20.8353
$34.1331
$25.8246
$25.7468
$25.7468
$31.0462
$19.8314
$22.1561
$24.3431
$20.3271
$22.1561

$23,490.00
$38,402.00
$43,548.00
$38,402.00
$44,527.00
$39,391.00
$49,313.00
$38,402.00
$32,067.00
$35,235.00
$38,402.00
$34,146.00
$32,067.00
$38,402.00
$31,591.00
$38,402.00
$43,548.00
$31,077.00
$38,402.00
$29,336.00
$25,930.00
$30,186.00
$33,156.00
$24,679.00
$35,235.00
$38,402.00
$43,548.00
$49,313.00
$46,814.00
$34,146.00
$37,312.00
$40,480.00
$34,146.00
$24,679.00
$28,604.00
$26,578.00
$34,146.00
$36,224.00
$39,391.00
$41,567.00
$39,391.00
$33,156.00
$37,312.00
$27,241.00
$47,878.00
$36,224.00
$35,235.00
$35,235.00
$43,548.00
$25,930.00
$31,077.00
$34,146.00
$27,241.00
$31,077.00

$37,370.00
$59,827.00
$64,576.00
$56,944.00
$66,026.00
$58,413.00
$73,124.00
$59,827.00
$47,551.00
$52,248.00
$56,944.00
$50,634.00
$47,551.00
$56,944.00
$49,032.00
$59,827.00
$64,576.00
$46,085.00
$56,944.00
$45,532.00
$41,249.00
$44,764.00
$49,165.00
$38,304.00
$53,553.00
$59,827.00
$64,576.00
$73,124.00
$69,420.00
$50,634.00
$55,329.00
$61,527.00
$50,634.00
$38,304.00
$42,415.00
$41,249.00
$50,634.00
$53,715.00
$58,413.00
$61,641.00
$58,413.00
$50,395.00
$55,329.00
$43,338.00
$70,997.00
$53,715.00
$53,553.00
$53,553.00
$64,576.00
$41,249.00
$46,085.00
$50,634.00
$42,280.00
$46,085.00

aw(a:paypaln00-01)     

PAGE 2

                                       GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA

                                    APPENDIX A1 - PAY PLAN FY2000/2001 - EFFECTIVE 10/01/00
                             5% RANGE EXTENSION TO THE SALARY MINIMUMS AND MAXIMUMS
                                   BROWARD COUNTY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                        PROFESSIONAL BARGAINING UNIT

CLASS 
CODE

CLASSIFICATION TITLE

FLSA
CODE

SALARY
GRADE

HOURLY
MINIMUM

HOURLY
MAXIMUM

ANNUAL
MINIMUM

ANNUAL
MAXIMUM

109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127

P1031
P6352
P6353
P6364
P7809
P2272
P2273
P2238
P2240
P2901
P2900
P6217
P6218
P7817
P7818
P2306
P2307
P0311
P2369

*
*

STATISTICIAN
SUBST ABUSE SPEC I
SUBST ABUSE SPEC II
SUBST ABUSE SUPERVISOR
SUPT OF TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEMS NETWORK AN II
SYSTEMS NETWORK AN III
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER II
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER III
TECHNICAL TRAINER I
TECHNICAL TRAINER II
TOXICOLOGIST I
TOXICOLOGIST II
TRANSIT MAINT SUPT
TRANSIT SUPT-FACILITIES MAINT
VETERANS SERV OFF I
VETERANS SERV OFF II
WAREHOUSE MANAGER
WEB SITE SPECIALIST

N
N
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
E
N
E

P0400
P0300
P0900
P1500
P2100
P2100
P2500
P2100
P2500
P1400
P2100
P1600
P2600
P2100
P2100
P0300
P0900
P0975
P0500

$13.0970
$12.4660
$14.9408
$16.9397
$18.4625
$18.4625
$21.4074
$18.4625
$21.4074
$16.4162
$18.4625
$16.3562
$21.4610
$18.4625
$18.4625
$12.4660
$14.9408
$14.8178
$13.7517

$20.3271
$19.8314
$22.1561
$25.1192
$27.3769
$27.3769
$31.7433
$27.3769
$31.7433
$24.3431
$27.3769
$25.3857
$33.3085
$27.3769
$27.3769
$19.8314
$22.1561
$22.9984
$20.3916

$27,241.00
$25,930.00
$31,077.00
$35,235.00
$38,402.00
$38,402.00
$44,527.00
$38,402.00
$44,527.00
$34,146.00
$38,402.00
$34,021.00
$44,639.00
$38,402.00
$38,402.00
$25,930.00
$31,077.00
$30,821.00
$28,604.00

$42,280.00
$41,249.00
$46,085.00
$52,248.00
$56,944.00
$56,944.00
$66,026.00
$56,944.00
$66,026.00
$50,634.00
$56,944.00
$52,802.00
$69,282.00
$56,944.00
$56,944.00
$41,249.00
$46,085.00
$47,837.00
$42,415.00

* = job classifications excluded from Civil Service prior to 10/01/2000.
Effective 10/03/2000, all vacant positions are now excluded from Civil Service.

aw(a:paypaln00-01)     

PAGE 3

                                       GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA

                                    APPENDIX A2 - PAY PLAN FY2001/2002 - EFFECTIVE 10/01/01
                             5% RANGE EXTENSION TO THE SALARY MINIMUMS AND MAXIMUMS
                                   BROWARD COUNTY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                        PROFESSIONAL BARGAINING UNIT

CLASS 
CODE

CLASSIFICATION TITLE

FLSA
CODE

SALARY
GRADE

HOURLY
MINIMUM

HOURLY
MAXIMUM

ANNUAL
MINIMUM

ANNUAL
MAXIMUM

*
*
*

*

*

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56

P1011
P1012
P1013
P0042
P0043
P2803
P2804
P2805
P3311
P2344
P7808
P8702
P3312
P1021
P1022
P9927
P5425
P6211
P6212
P6213
P6324
P6325
P6320
P6383
P6385
P6384
P5420
P2603
P6304
P6305
P2204
P2203
P2420
P2421
P5302
P5303
P2354
P2355
P2356
P6317
P3121
P3123
P3125
P5443
P5472
P5476
P5437
P6318
P6321
P6322
P6343
P2357
P6291
P6292
P6308
P3175

ACCOUNTANT I
ACCOUNTANT II
ACCOUNTANT III
ADMIN COORDINATOR I
ADMIN COORDINATOR II
ARTS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST I
ARTS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST II
ARTS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST III
ASSIST PLANNER
ASSIST REAL ESTATE OFCR
ASSIST SUPT OF TRANSP
ASSOC MEDICAL EXAM
ASSOC PLANNER
AUDITOR I
AUDITOR II
AVIATION BUSINESS SPECIALIST
BUILDING OFFICIAL
CHEMIST I
CHEMIST II
CHEMIST III
CHILD DEVEL SPEC I
CHILD DEVEL SPEC II
CHILD PROTECT TEAM COORD
CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST I
CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST II
CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST SUPV
CODE ENF ADMIN
COMMUNIC COORD
COMMUNITY DV SPEC I
COMMUNITY DV SPEC II
COMPUTER OPERATIONS AN
COMPUTER OPERATOR III
CONST ESTIMAT/SCHED MGR
CONSTRUCTION MGMT SPEC
CONSUMER REL ANALYST II
CONSUMER REL ANALYST III
CONTRACT/GRANT ADMN I
CONTRACT/GRANT ADMN II
CONTRACT/GRANT ADMN III
CRISIS INTERVENT CNSLR
ENGINEER I
ENGINEER II
ENGINEER III
ENVIR COMPL OFF III
ENVIR LICENSING SUPV
ENVIR PERMITTING SUPV
ENVIR PROJECT COORD
FAMILY THERAPIST I
FAMILY THERAPIST II
FAMILY THERAPIST III
GRANTS RESEARCH COORDINATOR
GRANTS RESEARCH SPECIALIST
HFA DEVEL COORD I
HFA DEVEL COORD II
HOUSING FINANCIAL ADV
HYDROGEOLOGIST II

N
E
E
N
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
E
E
N
N
E
N
N
E
E
E
N
E
N
N
E
E
E
E
N
E
E
N
N
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
E

P0400
P1100
P2100
P0400
P0900
P1100
P2000
P2450
P0400
P2175
P1400
P4025
P1800
P1000
P2100
P1900
P2825
P0775
P1800
P2375
P0300
P0600
P2375
P0150
P0300
P0750
P2175
P2500
P0400
P1800
P1600
P0650
P2725
P1400
P0700
P1300
P0400
P0900
P1700
P0150
P1000
P2225
P2625
P2150
P2225
P2450
P2400
P0675
P1300
P2100
P2400
P0900
P1800
P2300
P0100
P2225

$13.7518
$16.7373
$19.3856
$13.7518
$15.6878
$16.7373
$18.8352
$21.9831
$13.7518
$19.8848
$17.2370
$36.6313
$18.2860
$15.9477
$19.3856
$18.1842
$26.1534
$14.8091
$18.2860
$20.9838
$13.0893
$14.0897
$20.9838
$12.1544
$13.0893
$14.4479
$19.8848
$22.4778
$13.7518
$18.2860
$17.1740
$14.4479
$24.8937
$17.2370
$15.2382
$16.7373
$13.7518
$15.6878
$17.7866
$12.1544
$15.9477
$19.3856
$23.6320
$18.8352
$19.3856
$21.9831
$21.4836
$14.4278
$16.7373
$19.3856
$21.4836
$15.6878
$18.2860
$20.4343
$11.8579
$19.3856

$21.3435
$24.8191
$28.7458
$21.3435
$23.2639
$24.8191
$27.9306
$32.5985
$21.3435
$29.4869
$25.5602
$62.8085
$27.1159
$24.7519
$28.7458
$27.2374
$38.7824
$22.9848
$27.1159
$31.1170
$20.8230
$21.9507
$31.1170
$19.3362
$20.8230
$22.9848
$29.4869
$33.3305
$21.3435
$27.1159
$26.6550
$22.4239
$36.9135
$25.5602
$22.5970
$25.4399
$21.3435
$23.2639
$27.0341
$19.3362
$24.7519
$30.2013
$35.0439
$29.3446
$30.2013
$32.5985
$31.8581
$22.4780
$25.4399
$28.7458
$31.8581
$23.2639
$27.1159
$30.3020
$18.8645
$30.2013

$28,603.00
$34,814.00
$40,322.00
$28,603.00
$32,631.00
$34,814.00
$39,178.00
$45,725.00
$28,603.00
$41,361.00
$35,853.00
$76,192.00
$38,035.00
$33,171.00
$40,322.00
$37,823.00
$54,399.00
$30,803.00
$38,035.00
$43,645.00
$27,227.00
$29,307.00
$43,645.00
$25,282.00
$27,227.00
$30,052.00
$41,361.00
$46,753.00
$28,603.00
$38,035.00
$35,722.00
$30,052.00
$51,779.00
$35,853.00
$31,695.00
$34,814.00
$28,603.00
$32,631.00
$36,997.00
$25,282.00
$33,171.00
$40,322.00
$49,155.00
$39,178.00
$40,322.00
$45,725.00
$44,687.00
$30,010.00
$34,814.00
$40,322.00
$44,687.00
$32,631.00
$38,035.00
$42,504.00
$24,665.00
$40,322.00

$44,394.00
$51,623.00
$59,791.00
$44,394.00
$48,389.00
$51,623.00
$58,095.00
$67,805.00
$44,394.00
$61,334.00
$53,166.00
$130,642.00
$56,401.00
$51,484.00
$59,791.00
$56,654.00
$80,667.00
$47,809.00
$56,401.00
$64,723.00
$43,311.00
$45,658.00
$64,723.00
$40,219.00
$43,311.00
$47,809.00
$61,334.00
$69,327.00
$44,394.00
$56,401.00
$55,442.00
$46,641.00
$76,780.00
$53,166.00
$47,002.00
$52,915.00
$44,394.00
$48,389.00
$56,231.00
$40,219.00
$51,484.00
$62,818.00
$72,891.00
$61,037.00
$62,818.00
$67,805.00
$66,264.00
$46,753.00
$52,915.00
$59,791.00
$66,264.00
$48,389.00
$56,401.00
$63,027.00
$39,239.00
$62,818.00

aw(a:paypaln00-01)     

PAGE 1

                                       GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA

                                    APPENDIX A2 - PAY PLAN FY2001/2002 - EFFECTIVE 10/01/01
                             5% RANGE EXTENSION TO THE SALARY MINIMUMS AND MAXIMUMS
                                   BROWARD COUNTY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                        PROFESSIONAL BARGAINING UNIT

CLASS 
CODE

CLASSIFICATION TITLE

FLSA
CODE

SALARY
GRADE

HOURLY
MINIMUM

HOURLY
MAXIMUM

ANNUAL
MINIMUM

ANNUAL
MAXIMUM

57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112

P3177
P2282
P2283
P2330
P3156
P3161
P4021
P4022
P4023
P4028
P4052
P6404
P5482
P5483
P5484
P7509
P4147
P4125
P4121
P4122
P4126
P3309
P6336
P3107
P3108
P3109
P3105
P2346
P6283
P6284
P2329
P2326
P2327
P2371
P2372
P2380
P2373
P2381
P6270
P6233
P6234
P6287
P6341
P2343
P2358
P5429
P2001
P6331
P6332
P6333
P2361
P2362
P1031
P6352
P6353
P6364

*

*

*

*

HYDROGEOLOGIST III
INFORM SYSTEMS AN II
INFORM SYSTEMS AN III
IWM EDUCATION COORD
LAND SURVEYOR (REG)
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
LIBRARIAN I
LIBRARIAN II
LIBRARIAN III
LIBRARY SPECIALIST III
MARKETING DEVELOP ASSOC
MOSQUITO CONTROL MGR
NATURAL RES SPEC I
NATURAL RES SPEC II
NATURAL RES SPEC III
PARKING COORD
PARKS & REC MGR III
PARKS ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC
PARKS NATURALIST I
PARKS NATURALIST II
PARKS STAFF ENVIRON SPEC
PLANNING ANALYST
PROGRAM DEVELOP SPEC
PROJECT MANAGER I
PROJECT MANAGER II
PROJECT MANAGER III
PROJECT SYSTEMS SCHEDULER
PROPERTY MANAGER ASSIST
PSYCHIATRIC NURSE I
PSYCHIATRIC NURSE II
PUBLIC EDUCATION COORD
PUBLICATIONS SPEC I
PUBLICATIONS SPEC II
PURCHASING AGENT I
PURCHASING AGENT II
PURCHASING AGENT II (TECH/CONST)
PURCHASING AGENT III
PURCHASING AGENT III (TECH/CONST)
QUALITY ASSURANCE COORD
REGISTERED NURSE I
REGISTERED NURSE II
REHAB THERAPIST SUPVR
RESOURCE DEVELOP COORD
REVIEW APPRAISER
SENIOR GRANTS RESEARCH SPEC
SENIOR ZON PLANS EXAM
SOCIAL SVCS TRANSP OFC
SOCIAL WORKER I
SOCIAL WORKER II
SOCIAL WORKER III
SPECIAL PROJ COORD I
SPECIAL PROJ COORD II
STATISTICIAN
SUBST ABUSE SPEC I
SUBST ABUSE SPEC II
SUBST ABUSE SUPERVISOR

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
E
E
E
E
N
N
E
E
N
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
N
E
N
E
N
E
E
E
E
E
N
N
E
E
E
E
N
E
N
E
E
N
E
N
N
E
E

P2450
P2100
P2500
P2175
P2725
P2225
P0950
P1500
P2100
P1400
P0950
P2100
P1000
P2225
P2450
P0900
P2100
P0775
P0300
P0700
P1100
P0200
P1700
P2225
P2450
P2725
P2625
P1400
P2000
P2350
P1400
P0200
P0500
P0350
P1400
P1800
P2175
P2375
P2175
P1300
P2000
P0550
P2675
P1800
P1700
P1700
P2450
P0300
P0900
P1400
P0400
P0900
P0400
P0300
P0900
P1500

$21.9831
$19.3856
$22.4778
$19.8848
$24.8937
$19.3856
$16.1876
$17.7866
$19.3856
$17.2370
$16.1876
$19.3856
$15.9477
$19.3856
$21.9831
$15.6878
$19.3856
$14.8091
$13.0893
$15.2382
$16.7373
$12.4584
$17.7866
$19.3856
$21.9831
$24.8937
$23.6320
$17.2370
$18.8352
$20.4343
$17.2370
$12.4584
$14.4393
$13.4164
$17.2370
$18.2860
$19.8848
$20.9838
$19.8848
$16.7373
$18.8352
$13.7518
$24.1689
$18.2860
$17.7866
$17.7866
$21.9831
$13.0893
$15.6878
$17.2370
$13.7518
$15.6878
$13.7518
$13.0893
$15.6878
$17.7866

$32.5985
$28.7458
$33.3305
$29.4869
$36.9135
$30.2013
$24.0043
$26.3752
$28.7458
$25.5602
$24.0043
$28.7458
$24.7519
$30.2013
$32.5985
$23.2639
$28.7458
$22.9848
$20.8230
$22.5970
$24.8191
$19.3362
$27.0341
$30.2013
$32.5985
$36.9135
$35.0439
$25.5602
$27.9306
$31.0594
$25.5602
$19.3362
$21.4112
$20.8230
$25.5602
$27.1159
$29.4869
$31.1170
$29.4869
$25.4399
$27.9306
$21.8770
$35.8397
$27.1159
$27.0341
$27.0341
$32.5985
$20.8230
$23.2639
$25.5602
$21.3435
$23.2639
$21.3435
$20.8230
$23.2639
$26.3752

$45,725.00
$40,322.00
$46,753.00
$41,361.00
$51,779.00
$40,322.00
$33,670.00
$36,997.00
$40,322.00
$35,853.00
$33,670.00
$40,322.00
$33,171.00
$40,322.00
$45,725.00
$32,631.00
$40,322.00
$30,803.00
$27,227.00
$31,695.00
$34,814.00
$25,913.00
$36,997.00
$40,322.00
$45,725.00
$51,779.00
$49,155.00
$35,853.00
$39,178.00
$42,504.00
$35,853.00
$25,913.00
$30,034.00
$27,907.00
$35,853.00
$38,035.00
$41,361.00
$43,645.00
$41,361.00
$34,814.00
$39,178.00
$28,603.00
$50,272.00
$38,035.00
$36,997.00
$36,997.00
$45,725.00
$27,227.00
$32,631.00
$35,853.00
$28,603.00
$32,631.00
$28,603.00
$27,227.00
$32,631.00
$36,997.00

$67,805.00
$59,791.00
$69,327.00
$61,334.00
$76,780.00
$62,818.00
$49,929.00
$54,860.00
$59,791.00
$53,166.00
$49,929.00
$59,791.00
$51,484.00
$62,818.00
$67,805.00
$48,389.00
$59,791.00
$47,809.00
$43,311.00
$47,002.00
$51,623.00
$40,219.00
$56,231.00
$62,818.00
$67,805.00
$76,780.00
$72,891.00
$53,166.00
$58,095.00
$64,603.00
$53,166.00
$40,219.00
$44,536.00
$43,311.00
$53,166.00
$56,401.00
$61,334.00
$64,723.00
$61,334.00
$52,915.00
$58,095.00
$45,505.00
$74,547.00
$56,401.00
$56,231.00
$56,231.00
$67,805.00
$43,311.00
$48,389.00
$53,166.00
$44,394.00
$48,389.00
$44,394.00
$43,311.00
$48,389.00
$54,860.00

aw(a:paypaln00-01)     

PAGE 2

                                       GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA

                                    APPENDIX A2 - PAY PLAN FY2001/2002 - EFFECTIVE 10/01/01
                             5% RANGE EXTENSION TO THE SALARY MINIMUMS AND MAXIMUMS
                                   BROWARD COUNTY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                                        PROFESSIONAL BARGAINING UNIT

CLASS 
CODE

CLASSIFICATION TITLE

FLSA
CODE

SALARY
GRADE

HOURLY
MINIMUM

HOURLY
MAXIMUM

ANNUAL
MINIMUM

ANNUAL
MAXIMUM

113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127

P7809
P2272
P2273
P2238
P2240
P2901
P2900
P6217
P6218
P7817
P7818
P2306
P2307
P0311
P2369

*
*

SUPT OF TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEMS NETWORK AN II
SYSTEMS NETWORK AN III
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER II
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER III
TECHNICAL TRAINER I
TECHNICAL TRAINER II
TOXICOLOGIST I
TOXICOLOGIST II
TRANSIT MAINT SUPT
TRANSIT SUPT-FACILITIES MAINT
VETERANS SERV OFF I
VETERANS SERV OFF II
WAREHOUSE MANAGER
WEB SITE SPECIALIST

E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
N
E
N
E

P2100
P2100
P2500
P2100
P2500
P1400
P2100
P1600
P2600
P2100
P2100
P0300
P0900
P0975
P0500

$19.3856
$19.3856
$22.4778
$19.3856
$22.4778
$17.2370
$19.3856
$17.1740
$22.5340
$19.3856
$19.3856
$13.0893
$15.6878
$15.5587
$14.4393

$28.7458
$28.7458
$33.3305
$28.7458
$33.3305
$25.5602
$28.7458
$26.6550
$34.9739
$28.7458
$28.7458
$20.8230
$23.2639
$24.1483
$21.4112

$40,322.00
$40,322.00
$46,753.00
$40,322.00
$46,753.00
$35,853.00
$40,322.00
$35,722.00
$46,871.00
$40,322.00
$40,322.00
$27,227.00
$32,631.00
$32,362.00
$30,034.00

$59,791.00
$59,791.00
$69,327.00
$59,791.00
$69,327.00
$53,166.00
$59,791.00
$55,442.00
$72,746.00
$59,791.00
$59,791.00
$43,311.00
$48,389.00
$50,229.00
$44,536.00

* = job classifications excluded from Civil Service prior to 10/01/2000.
Effective 10/03/2000, all vacant positions are now excluded from Civil Service.

aw(a:paypaln00-01)     

PAGE 3

GOVERNMENT SUPERVISORS ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA

-PROFESSIONAL UNIT-

GRIEVANCE FORM

PLEASE ATTACH ANY STATEMENTS OR INFORMATION TO SUPPORT YOUR GRIEVANCE - TYPE OR PRINT NEATLY

NAME OF EMPLOYEE/OFFICER FILING

CLASSIFICATION

PHONE NUMBER

DEPARTMENT/DIVISION

SECTION OF AGREEMENT VIOLATED

DATE OF OCCURENCE/VIOLATION

LIST ALL OF THE FACTS CONCERNING THE GRIEVANCE

REQUESTED REMEDY

                                                                
GRIEVANTS SIGNATURE

                                                                
REPRESENTATIVE’S SIGNATURE

                                                                
SUPERVISOR’S SIGNATURE

                                                                
DATE

                                                                
DATE

                                                                
DATE

