Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

27

Language English

Country United States

State

FL

Union IAFF (International Association of Fire Fighters) AFL-CIO

Local Local 1989, Port Everglades Fire Fighters

Firefighting occupations 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Government Supervisors of Broward Co., FL
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear

[unknown]

EndYear 2000

Source

http://www.broward.org/hui02804.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

PREAMBLE 
 
This Agreement made and entered into by and between BROWARD COUNTY, 
hereinafter called the County, 
 
and 
 
PORT EVERGLADES FIRE FIGHTERS ASSOCIATION, INC., Local 1989, International 
Association of Fire Fighters, AFL-CIO, CLC, hereinafter called the Union, 
has as its purpose the promotion of continued harmonious relations between 
the County and the Union, the establishment of an equitable and peaceful 
procedure for the resolution of differences and the establishment of 
conditions of employment. 
 
ARTICLE 1 
RECOGNITION 
 
The County recognizes the Port Everglades Fire Fighters' Association, Inc., 
Local 1989, I.A.F.F. AFL-CIO, CLC, its designated agents and 
representatives as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent of all certified 
fire fighters employed at Port Everglades but excluding the Chief and any 
designated Deputy Chief with respect to wages, hours, and all other terms 
or conditions of employment. 
 
In the event that job titles not now existing at Port Everglades, which 
encompass fire fighting work currently assigned to members of this 
bargaining unit, are created during the term of this Agreement, the Union 
and the County agree that the parties shall meet and discuss these job 
titles. 
 
The County and the Union further agree that there shall be no interference 
or coercion practiced by the County or the Union against any employee of 
the Division on account of membership or non-membership in the Union. The 
County and the Union affirm their joint opposition to any discriminatory 
practices in regard to employment, promotion or training, remembering that 
public law and public interest require no discrimination on account of 
race, color, creed, handicap, national origin, age or sex. 
 
ARTICLE 2 
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 
 
It is understood that the County has the right to operate the department 
and division and this agreement shall not be construed to limit in any way 
the right of the County to manage and operate its business. 
 
In order to fulfill this commitment and responsibility, management shall 
have the right, subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement, to: 
 
  1. Hire, promote, and evaluate employees. 
  2. Discipline, demote, suspend or discharge employees for just cause. 
  3. Determine unilaterally the purpose of each department, division, or 
     operation. 
  4. Determine what reasonable work activities are performed. 
  5. Exercise control and discretion over the organization and operation of 
     the County. 
  6. Cause reductions in work force for legitimate reasons. 
  7. Set standards of service to be provided. 

  8. Formulate, change or modify rules, regulations and procedures provided 
     it is not contrary to the provisions of this agreement. 
 
Whenever the County exercises a right or privilege as provided herein, the 
County shall not be obligated to bargain or negotiate the effect or impact 
of that exercise. 
 
ARTICLE 3 
PROBATIONARY PERIOD 
 
When an employee is hired by the County, said employee shall be on 
probationary status for a period of twelve (12) months from their date of 
employment. After completion of said period, the employee shall attain a 
permanent employee status. 
 
Such new employee who is assigned to duty as a fire fighter shall, in 
addition, be considered a probationary employee until he/she has completed 
a minimum standards course for fire fighters as prescribed by the Fire 
Fighters Standard Council. The employment of a probationary employee may be 
terminated at any time during the probationary period and shall not be 
subject to the grievance procedure. 
 
In the event that a fire fighter employed by the Division at Port 
Everglades fills a vacancy or a new position in any other job 
classification with the County and the County determines within the 
probationary period that the employee has not satisfactorily performed that 
job, or the employee within the probationary period, determines that he/she 
no longer desires to remain in that position, he/she shall automatically 
return to his/her previous position with the Division at Port Everglades 
with no loss of seniority and/or other benefits. 
 
In the event that a fire fighter employed by the Division at Port 
Everglades is promoted to a vacancy or new position within the bargaining 
unit, said employee shall be on promotional probationary status for a 
period of six months from the date of promotion. The promotional 
probationary period may be extended for an additional six months at the 
mutual agreement of the County and the affected employee. After completion 
of the promotional probationary period, the employee shall attain a 
permanent status in that position. In the event that the County determines 
within the promotional probationary period that the employee has not 
satisfactorily performed that job, or the employee within the promotional 
probationary period determines that he no longer desires to remain in that 
position, he shall automatically return to his previous position with the 
Division at Port Everglades with no loss of seniority and/or benefits. 
 
ARTICLE 4 
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES 
 
Section A. Definition of a Grievance. 
 
A "grievance" as herein used shall be defined as a dispute concerning 
working conditions, the interpretation or application of this agreement or 
the subject matter thereof. 
 
Section B. Grievance Procedure. 
 
Step 1: When a grievance exists, the aggrieved employee and/or a Union 

representative may discuss and attempt to adjust the grievance with the 
Deputy Chief. If unable to adjust, the grievance will be put in writing and 
signed by the employee and/or a Union representative and submitted to the 
Deputy Chief who shall reply in writing within ten (10) working days 
excluding the day filed. 
 
Step 2: If the aggrieved employee and/or the Union is not satisfied with 
the decision rendered by the Deputy Chief in Step 1, the aggrieved employee 
and/or a Union representative may submit the written grievance within ten 
(10) working days after receipt of the reply from the Division Director to 
the Division Director who shall make an investigation of the grievance and 
shall meet with the aggrieved employee and/or Union representative no later 
than (10) working days from receipt of the Step 2 written appeal. The 
Division Director shall reply in writing within five (5) working days of 
the Step 2 meeting. 
 
Step 3: If the aggrieved employee or the Union is not satisfied with the 
decision rendered by the Division Director in Step 2, the aggrieved 
employee and/or a Union representative may submit the written grievance 
within ten (10) working days after the receipt of the reply from the 
Division Director to the Department Director or his/her designated 
representative, who shall make an investigation of the grievance and shall 
meet with the aggrieved employee and/or Union representative no later than 
ten (10) working days from receipt of the Step 2 written appeal. The 
Department Director or his/her designee shall reply in writing within five 
(5) working days of the Step 3 meeting. 
 
Section C. Arbitration. 
 
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled under the procedures 
provided above and if the grievance relates to the determination of any and 
all rights and obligations conferred or created by this contract, the Union 
may request arbitration provided such request is made in writing within ten 
(10) calendar days following the receipt of the answer of the Department 
Director or designee. Within seven (7) calendar days after the request for 
arbitration, both parties shall meet to designate an arbitrator. If the 
parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator within ten (10) calendar 
days thereafter, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be 
requested immediately to provide a list of five (5) arbitrators. The 
parties shall alternately strike and select a single arbitrator who shall 
look solely to the parties for his/her compensation. The arbitrator shall 
hold hearings and render his/her decision within ten (10) calendar days 
from the date of his/her appointment if practicable and his/her decision 
shall be final and binding upon both parties. All costs associated with 
such arbitration shall be borne equally by both parties. Application to 
this procedure shall foreclose the grievant from appealing to any other 
available formal County procedure. 
 
In the event that an employee has been disciplined to the extent that 
he/she has been suspended or discharged and is reinstated, the employee 
shall be reinstated with no loss or impairment of any rights under this 
agreement or other rules and regulations of the County. 
 
In the event that any employee has been suspended and that suspension is 
upheld, that employee, upon the expiration of that suspension, shall be 
fully reinstated to his/her former position with no loss or impairment of 
any of his/her rights under this collective bargaining agreement or any 

other rules and regulations of the County. 
 
The arbitrator does not have the right to alter, amend or enlarge the terms 
of this contract. It is expressly understood and agreed that nothing in 
Section C. shall infer or imply an agreement to use the arbitration process 
to resolve any dispute which may arise in the negotiation of the terms of 
this contract. All costs incurred by such arbitration proceedings shall be 
borne equally by both parties, except if either party desires a transcript 
of the arbitration proceedings, the total cost of such transcript shall be 
paid for by the party making the request. 
 
Section D. Time Limits. 
 
The time limitations provided in this Article shall be strictly observed 
and shall be extended only by written agreement of the parties. In the 
event that the County or the Union fails to comply with any of the 
aforestated time limitations, the County shall be deemed to have waived its 
right to contest said grievance and said grievance shall be sustained with 
all requested relief automatically implemented, and should the Union fail 
to so comply, the grievance shall be deemed denied and no relief granted. 
 
No action or matter shall be considered the subject of a grievance unless 
written complaint is made within ten (10) days of its occurrence. When it 
is necessary for a Union representative to stop work or leave his station 
to process a grievance or to conduct other Union business, he shall report 
to his supervisor before stopping work and again when he is ready to resume 
work. "Working days" as used herein, shall be defined as the days Monday 
through Friday inclusive but shall exclude any such day on which a holiday 
is observed. 
 
Nothing in this Article shall require the Union to process grievances for 
employees who are not members of the Union, in conformity with Florida Law. 
 
ARTICLE 5 
FUNERAL LEAVE 
 
Leave may be granted by the Division Director without loss of pay for death 
in the immediate family or serving as a pallbearer at a funeral. 
 
Such employee who is absent from regularly scheduled work because of death 
in the immediate family shall be paid for wages lost beginning on the date 
of the death to and including the day of the funeral but such payment shall 
not exceed forty (40) hours of pay. An employee's "immediate family" shall 
include: spouse, parents, children, brother, sister, parents-in-law, 
grandparents, grandchildren, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents of 
the employee's spouse and any other relative who resides in the same house 
as the employee. The rate of pay shall be the straight time rate at which 
the employee worked prior to the beginning of the leave. 
 
An employee may also be granted one (1) day of leave with pay for the 
purpose of serving as pallbearer at a funeral for other than a member of 
the immediate family providing that such leave is requested in advance. 
 
ARTICLE 6 
SICK LEAVE 
 
An employee, including a probationary employee, will earn credit of eight 

(8) hours of sick leave with pay for each full month of service. Such 
credit will be accumulated from the day of employment provided the employee 
is hired on or before the fifteenth of the month and such credits can be 
accumulated without limit. In order to equalize hourly credits with credits 
calculated on a day basis, each fire fighter will have two (2) hours added 
to his/her accumulated sick leave credits as of January 1st of each year. 
An employee who does not use any sick leave for a period of six (6) 
consecutive months will have twelve (12) hours added to his/her vacation 
leave. This may be taken at any time during the year and need not be taken 
with the employee's vacation. 
 
An employee may use such credit for personal illness or injury or critical 
illness occurring in the immediate family providing that the employee 
notifies his/her Division Director on the first day of absence for such 
illness or injury of the reason for the absence. Failure to give such 
notice may be grounds for denial of leave with pay. Illness or injury 
occurring during an employee's vacation can be adjusted upon written 
application by the employee upon return to duty. 
 
When an employee is disabled because of an occupational injury or illness 
incurred while performing assigned duties for the County for which he/she 
is eligible to receive Worker's Compensation 
 
payments, he/she will receive benefits in accordance with the County's 
established Worker's Compensation policies and procedures. 
 
If an employee is unable to perform his/her regularly assigned duties as a 
result of an injury, but is still able to perform some type of work, the 
employee may be assigned by the Division Director other work duties in the 
Division during the period of his/her recuperation. 
 
Verification of illness or injury by a doctor's certificate or by home 
visitation may be required if considered necessary. Probationary employees 
earn credits for illness or injury leave from date of employment and such 
leave credits can be used during the probationary period. 
 
An employee will be paid thirty percent (30%) of the value of the sick 
leave accumulated to his/her credit at the time of separation, provided the 
employee leaves employment in good standing. If an employee retires under 
the provisions of the Florida Retirement System, he/she will be paid one 
hundred percent (100%) of the value of the sick leave accumulated to 
his/her credit at time of separation. Upon death of an employee, one 
hundred percent (100%) of the value of accumulated sick leave will be paid 
to the employee's beneficiary as named on the employee's group insurance 
policy. The maximum pay out for this Article shall be one thousand one 
hundred twenty (1,120) hours. 
 
Employees covered by this Agreement may participate in the County's Sick 
Leave Donation Program and are subject to the same guidelines and 
eligibility requirements as non-represented employees. Employees covered by 
this Agreement are subject to the Sick Leave provisions of the Civil 
Service Rules and Regulations. 
 
ARTICLE 7 
HOLIDAYS 
 
Section A. 

 
The following holidays will be observed as holidays for Division employees 
covered under this agreement: 
 
New Year's Day Veteran's Day 
 
Martin Luther King's Birthday Thanksgiving Day 
 
Washington's Birthday Day After Thanksgiving 
 
Memorial Day 1/2 Day Christmas Eve 
 
Independence Day Christmas Day 
 
Labor Day 1/2 Day New Year's Eve 
 
Any holiday adopted by the Division shall be incorporated by reference as a 
holiday with respect to the employees covered by this Agreement. 
 
Section B. 
 
Since a fire fighter assigned to a 24/72 hour schedule works his/her 
regular scheduled hours in a work week in which one of these holidays 
falls, he/she will be paid, in lieu of time off, twelve (12) hours straight 
time pay in addition to regular pay for hours worked. In order to receive 
holiday pay, the employee scheduled to work on a holiday must report for 
work and work his/her full shift as scheduled. 
 
In the event that any of the aforementioned holidays fall within the 
regular work week of a fire fighter assigned to a 40 hour work week 
schedule, the employee shall be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay 
and shall receive the day off. If the employee is required to work by the 
Division Director, he/she will be paid, in lieu of time off, twelve (12) 
hours straight time pay in addition to the hours worked. 
 
Employees will be granted sixteen (16) hours paid leave per calendar year 
to be utilized for personal business. Written notice to the Division 
Director shall be required forty-eight (48) hours in advance in order to 
take such time off. 
 
ARTICLE 8 
VACATION 
 
Those fire fighters assigned to the 24/72 work schedule shall be entitled 
to vacation pay, based on the schedule below: 
 
Eighty-four (84) hours each year for the first four (4) years; 
 
One hundred twenty (120) hours for years five (5) through nine (9); 
 
One hundred sixty-eight (168) hours for years ten (10) and over. 
 
Those personnel assigned to a forty (40) hour week shall be entitled to 
vacation with pay, based on the schedule below: 
 
Eighty (80) hours each year for the first four (4) years; 
 

One hundred twenty (120) hours for years five (5) through nine (9); 
 
One hundred sixty (160) hours for years ten (10) and over. 
 
An employee will be entitled to the scheduled vacation above or pay 
therefore, in event of resignation or termination, only after completion of 
twelve (12) months of continuous service. 
 
Such vacation must be taken between the first anniversary of employment and 
the end of the calendar year. If there is not sufficient time to take such 
vacation before the end of the calendar year, all or part of the vacation 
may be deferred but must be taken before January 31st of the next calendar 
year. After the first anniversary of employment, an employee will become 
entitled to his/her next vacation on January 1st of the next calendar year 
and the vacation year will coincide with the calendar year thereafter. 
 
In the calendar years in which his/her fourth and ninth employment 
anniversaries fall, an employee may schedule an additional week of vacation 
with pay beginning January 1st of that year but if the employee resigns 
prior to his/her anniversary date, the additional vacation pay will be 
deducted from the employee's final check. 
 
When an employee resigns, he/she will be paid for any unused vacation 
earned in the previous calendar year plus any vacation pay earned in the 
current calendar year. Each employee entitled to a vacation may indicate 
his/her preferred vacation time and such request will be considered in 
continuous service order and granted when practicable but it is understood 
that efficient operation of the Division shall be the first consideration 
and the Division shall have the right to assign vacations on that basis. 
 
All vacations must be taken in the year in which due except as provided 
above in the year in which an employee's first anniversary occurs and any 
vacation not taken in the year in which due shall be forfeited except that 
an employee who is unable to take earned vacation because of absence for 
compensable injury incurred while working at the Division will be paid 
vacation pay in the current year on the last pay day in the calendar year. 
 
All vacation pay due an employee will be made available to the employee on 
his/her last duty day preceding his/her vacation leave providing the 
employee has submitted a written request for such pay at least seven (7) 
days before the day on which the pay is desired. 
 
A "working day" as used in this article, shall be equal to the average 
scheduled hours of work on each daily tour of duty during the eight (8) 
weeks prior to the time the vacation is taken. 
 
An employee's vacation pay will be based upon his/her normal bi-weekly pay 
rate in effect at the end of the payroll period completed just prior to the 
beginning of the vacation. 
 
Employees covered by this Agreement may participate in the County's 
Compassionate Annual Leave Donation Program and are subject to the same 
guidelines and eligibility requirements as non-represented employees. 
 
ARTICLE 9 
INSURANCE 
 

Effective in the 1998 benefit year, as determined through open enrollment 
in the Fall of 1997, all employees covered by this Agreement shall receive 
the same group insurance benefits as provided to all non-represented 
employees of Broward County and in accordance with the County Cafeteria 
Benefit Program. 
 
It is agreed that when revisions in the current group insurance plan are 
considered, discussions will be held with representative of Union in order 
to obtain their views about such insurance coverage. 
 
If the flexible dollar allowance is increased for all the other County 
bargaining units, the increase will also apply to employees covered by this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 10 
PENSION 
 
Fire fighters covered by this Agreement are members of the Florida 
Retirement System, and are governed by its rules and regulations. The 
County agrees that it will conform with all provisions of the Florida 
Retirement System established by law which affect it as a covered employer. 
 
ARTICLE 11 
UNIFORMS AND BUNKER GEAR 
 
Section A. Uniforms. 
 
The parties agree that a mutually agreeable style of dress uniform which is 
compatible with that customarily worn by fire fighters in this locale has 
been established. The County agrees to furnish each new fire fighter 
covered by this Agreement with appropriate uniforms which shall include 
three pairs of pants, three shirts, two hats and accessories and one work 
uniform. 
 
Section B. Bunker (Fire Fighting) Gear. 
 
The County agrees to furnish to each fire fighter who has completed his/her 
probationary period, his/her personal bunker (fire fighting) gear in 
accordance with the schedule listed below: 
 
1 Helmet 
 
1 Bunker Coat and pants -- high quality material designed 
 
according to the latest standards on personal protection. 
 
1 Pair of five finger type fire fighter gloves. 
 
1 Pair of fire fighter boots with safety insole and toe. 
 
The maintenance and care of this equipment will be the responsibility of 
the fire fighter to whom it is issued. 
 
Section C. Uniform Maintenance and Cleaning Allowance. 
 
The County agrees to pay a total of $300.00, payable $150.00 the first week 
in June and $150.00 payable in the first week of December of each year, to 

reimburse the fire fighters for the cost of cleaning and maintaining the 
issued bunker gear and the maintenance and cleaning of dress uniform and 
work clothes. To determine that uniforms are fit for wear before the public 
and that bunker gear is in a safe and good condition, the Captain of each 
squad will inspect quarterly all uniforms and bunker gear issued to each 
member. In addition, the Division Director will conduct a semi-annual 
inspection which will include the uniforms and bunker gear of the Captains 
and Inspector as well as the fire fighters. Any bunker gear found 
unsatisfactory in the opinion of the Division Director must be replaced 
within thirty (30) days of written instructions. 
 
ARTICLE 12 
DUES CHECKOFF 
 
The County agrees to deduct monthly Union dues, in the amount provided by 
Local 1989, from each employee who has authorized such deduction in a 
written assignment in a form acceptable to the County. Such dues will be 
deducted in installments from each pay and the total sum deducted will be 
remitted to the Union Treasurer once monthly on the Friday following the 
last pay day in the month. 
 
In the event the employee desires to stop the withholding of dues from 
his/her wages, he/she shall indicate his/her intent to the Human Resources 
and Accounting Directors in writing on the form agreed upon and such notice 
shall become effective thirty (30) days following its receipt by the Human 
Resources Director. 
 
The County agrees to provide this service without charge to the Union. 
 
Any change in the amount to be deducted from employee's checks shall be 
provided by Local 1989 to the County no less than thirty (30) days prior to 
the effective date of change. 
 
ARTICLE 13 
STRIKES, SLOWDOWNS 
 
The Union agrees that there will be no strikes, slow downs, stoppages of 
work or any interference with the efficient management of the Division or 
the County. 
 
The County agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees for any 
reason. 
 
It is agreed by the County and the Union that nothing contained in this 
section or any part of this Agreement shall be used to form the basis for 
an allegation of a violation of this Agreement for the purpose of 
supporting any legal action until the complaining party has given notice to 
the other party of the offense charged at the latter party, having been 
allowed a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation, shall refuse to 
do so. 
 
Nothing herein contained shall abridge the right of any duly authorized 
representative of the Union to present the views of the Union to the 
citizens on issues which affect the welfare of its members. 
 
ARTICLE 14 
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS 

 
The Union agrees that whenever any qualified employee is requested by 
his/her supervisor to temporarily work in a higher job classification, 
he/she shall do so promptly and as efficiently as his/her ability will 
permit. Whenever a qualified employee is assigned to a higher job, he/she 
will be paid the established rate or the next higher rate for all time 
worked in the higher job provided that he/she works a minimum of eight (8) 
hours or more in the higher rated job, unless an employee is assigned to a 
higher rated job in a combat situation. 
 
ARTICLE 15 
SAVINGS/SEVERABILITY CLAUSE 
 
It is the intent of the parties that this contract shall constitute the 
entire agreement between them and where the specific provisions of this 
contract differ from the past, present or future policies, procedures or 
directives covering any other employees of the Division at Port Everglades, 
the specific provisions of this contract only shall apply. 
 
If any provision of this Agreement is subsequently declared by the proper 
legislative or judicial authority to be unlawful, unenforceable, or not in 
accordance with applicable statutes all other provisions of this Agreement 
shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement. 
 
On a case by case basis as the issue arises, the parties agree to discuss 
past practices. 
 
ARTICLE 16 
INTEGRITY OF THE PORT EVERGLADES BARGAINING UNIT 
 
The County agrees to keep a fire station at Port Everglades open and 
operating and that station shall be staffed by bargaining unit members 
represented by the Union. 
 
The County and the Union agree that bargaining unit employees shall be 
permanently assigned to the Port Everglades Station. Bargaining Unit 
members shall not be involuntarily and permanently assigned away from Port 
Everglades. This provision shall not preclude management from making 
temporary assignments arising out of unforeseen emergencies or from making 
temporary training assignments. 
 
Promotions to positions represented by the Union shall be made from within 
the bargaining unit. If a position is vacant, and no qualified bargaining 
unit candidate accepts the position, the parties agree to reopen this 
section of this article to negotiate how the vacancy will be filled. 
 
ARTICLE 17 
SENIORITY 
 
The parties recognize that promotional opportunity and job security in the 
event of layoffs and recalls after layoffs should increase in proportion to 
length of continuous service and that in administering this article, the 
intent will be to give full consideration to continuous service in such 
cases. 
 
In recognition, however, of the responsibilities of the Division management 
for efficient operation of the Division, it is understood and agreed that 

in all cases of promotion (except to positions excluded from the bargaining 
unit), the factors of 
 
1) Continuous service and 
 
2) Ability to perform the work 
 
shall be considered and in accordance with the Civil Service Rules and 
Regulations, only where the ability to perform the work is relatively 
equal, shall length of continuous service be the determining factor. 
Continuous service as used herein shall be calculated from the date an 
employee was employed as a fire fighter at Port Everglades. 
 
The parties have agreed to a plan for promotional exams and the development 
of a promotional list in accordance with the Civil Service Rules and 
Regulations. 
 
In the event of a general personnel reduction, the employee with the least 
seniority shall be laid off first. An employee's continuous service will 
cease and his/her employment will terminate when the employee: 
 
  1. Quits 
  2. Is discharged 
  3. Is laid off and fails to report for work after five (5) days written 
     notice to do so. 
 
No new employee shall be hired in this unit until a laid-off fire fighter 
has been given an opportunity to return to work for a period of two (2) 
years from the date of layoff, provided that such fire fighter shall be 
fully qualified for the vacant position with the determination of such 
qualifications strictly reserved as a management right. 
 
The opportunity for overtime assignments for other than fire fighting 
activities will be divided as equally as possible among the fire fighters, 
within this unit, who have the ability to perform the work. It will be the 
responsibility of the fire fighter who is entitled to the overtime work to 
either work or provide a substitute in lieu of working. 
 
As much advance notice of required overtime will be given as is practicable 
under the circumstances. 
 
Assignment of overtime work in an emergency shall be made without regard to 
either continuous service or prior overtime and no such assignment shall be 
subject to the grievance procedure. 
 
ARTICLE 18 
UNION REPRESENTATION 
 
Section A. 
 
The County agrees that during working hours, on the County premises, and 
without loss of pay, not more than two (2) Union representatives shall be 
allowed to: 
 
1)Attend negotiating meetings; 
 
2) Transmit communications, authorized by the local Union or its officers, 

to the County or its representatives; 
 
3) Consult with County representatives, Union officers or other Union 
representatives concerning the enforcement of any provisions of this 
Agreement; and 
 
4) Attend Port Department meetings, provided that manning levels are met, 
and agenda item(s) before the Port Department pertain directly to the 
bargaining unit. The Division Director will approve attendance in advance. 
 
Each representative shall report to the supervisor before stopping work or 
leaving his/her station to conduct such Union business and again when 
he/she is ready to resume work. 
 
The President of Local 1989 or his/her designated representative will be 
permitted a reasonable time off without pay each year to attend two Union 
conventions or seminars outside the County providing that such leave shall 
not result in extra wage cost for the County and providing also that the 
request for such leave shall be made at least ten (10) days prior to the 
first day of the leave requested. The President of the Union or his/her 
designee shall be authorized for leave with pay to attend Union 
conventions, seminars, or meetings not to exceed a total of one (1) twenty 
four (24) hour shift in any calendar year. A member of the Union's 
executive board, to be designated by the President of the Union, shall be 
authorized for leave with pay to attend Union conventions, seminars, or 
meetings not to exceed a total of eight (8) hours in any calendar year. 
 
Section B. Civic Leave 
 
An employee shall be eligible to apply for Civic Leave with pay when 
performing volunteer work for a bona fide charitable organization or cause, 
(i.e. Muscular Dystrophy Association, American Cancer Society, or any other 
community or nationally recognized nonprofit, nonpartisan organization.) 
 
Requests for paid Civic Leave shall be made in writing to the Division 
Director, at least two (2) weeks in advance of proposed leave. Civic Leave 
may be granted at the sole discretion of the Division Director, but shall 
not exceed sixteen hours per employee per calendar year. In considering 
such a request, the Division Director shall take into account the following 
factors: 
 
a. efficient operation of the County; 
 
b. nature of the organization involved; 
 
c. extent of the employee's prior participation with the organization in 
question; 
 
d. approximate number of hours contributed to that organization by the 
employee in the last ninety days; and 
 
e. Favorable reflection of employee's volunteer activities upon the County. 
 
Any employee on Civic Leave shall notify the charitable organization 
involved of the County's participation, and shall identify the County as 
his/her sponsor. 
 

Section C. 
 
Fire fighters may contribute up to one (1) shift, twenty four hours, per 
year of annual leave, personal leave, or sick leave bonus hours to a paid 
annual leave pool to be used by members of the bargaining unit for solely 
Union business. The Union President shall notify the Division Director of 
the Union's desire to allocate leave from this pool. Authorization must be 
submitted before such assignment is effected. There will be no cost to the 
County for pool leave utilization. Under normal circumstances pool 
utilization will include reasonable notice of one week. 
 
ARTICLE 19 
LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
 
A leave of absence (without pay) beyond vacation to which an employee is 
entitled may be granted for good and sufficient reason in the opinion of 
County management. Efficient operation of the Division shall be the first 
consideration in approval of such leave. The terms of the leave of absence 
will be in writing and the leave will be for no more than six (6) months 
but the term may be extended for one (1) additional six (6) month term at 
the option of County management. 
 
Such leave, including any extension, shall not affect an employee's 
continuous service providing there has been no impairment of his/her 
ability to perform the available work but if an employee fails to return to 
work within the term of the leave, his/her continuous service shall be 
broken and his employment shall be terminated. 
 
A leave of absence will not be granted for the purpose of allowing an 
employee to take another job or to undertake a business venture for 
himself/herself or with others. 
 
Insurance benefits during such unpaid leave will be continued only if the 
employee pays the full cost of such insurance in advance without 
contribution by the County and in accordance with the County's Benefit 
Plan. 
 
ARTICLE 20 
MUTUAL EXCHANGE OF TOURS 
 
A fire fighter may request approval to exchange a duty shift with another 
fire fighter of the same or acting rank. If the request is submitted to the 
Division Director on the appropriate form signed by both fire fighters 
concerned at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance and if the exchange 
will not interfere with the efficient operation or increase the operating 
cost of the Division, it will be approved by the Division Director unless 
there are extenuating circumstances which will be explained at the time the 
request is denied. The fire fighter who agrees to substitute will be 
responsible for reporting to work at the scheduled time. 
 
In the case of emergency, notification can be made by phone to the Division 
Director and confirmation in writing will be made on the appropriate form 
subsequent to the substitution. 
 
ARTICLE 21 
CALL BACK PAY 
 

Section A. Call Back Pay 
 
An employee who has left the Port and is called to return to duty after 
having completed his/her scheduled shift will be paid one and one half 
times his/her straight time rate for all time worked with a minimum of four 
(4) hours pay at the overtime rate. 
 
This shall include, but not be limited to any meetings, seminars, or 
classes which an employee may be required by the Division Director to 
attend when he/she is not regularly scheduled to work. 
 
Section B. Portal-to-Portal Pay 
 
An affected employee shall be compensated from the time he/she reasonably 
leaves his/her residence and he/she shall continue to be compensated until 
said employee returns to his/her residence, unless the said employee is 
given at least eight hours prior notice of scheduled overtime. 
 
Overtime hours contiguous to regularly scheduled hours of work/shift shall 
not be subject to portal-to-portal pay. 
 
Portal-to-portal pay shall not apply if an employee is assigned to a full 
shift other than his/her regularly scheduled hours of work/shift. 
 
ARTICLE 22 
JURY DUTY AND WITNESS PAY 
 
A fire fighter who has completed his/her probationary period will be paid 
for necessary absence from work to serve on jury duty or as a witness 
providing: 
 
1)Such absence is scheduled in advance with the Division Director. 
 
2) The fire fighter works as many hours of his/her scheduled shift on the 
days of such service as is practical. 
 
3) A Certificate of Attendance by the Jury or Court Clerk showing the date 
and hours of such service is provided if requested. 
 
No deduction from pay will be made for any jury pay or witness pay 
received. 
 
Any service as a witness as an employee of the County in any official 
proceeding will be considered time worked. 
 
ARTICLE 23 
WAGE RATES 
 
Section A. 
 
Effective the first full pay period in October, 1997 (October 5, 1997), all 
employees in a bargaining unit position as of October 1, 1997, shall 
receive an increase of five percent (5%) to their base hourly rate. 
 
Effective the first full pay period in October, 1998 (October 4, 1998), all 
employees in a bargaining unit position as of October 1, 1998, shall 
receive an increase of two and one half percent (2 1/2%) to their base 

hourly rate. 
 
Effective the first full pay period in October, 1999 (October 3, 1999), all 
employees in a bargaining unit position as of October 1, 1999, shall 
receive an increase of two and one half percent (2 1/2%) to their base 
hourly rate. 
 
A fire fighter promoted to the classification of Driver/ Engineer shall 
assume the step in the assigned grade, corresponding to the length of 
service in the bargaining unit, as indicated below: 
 
YEARS IN BARGAINING UNIT GRADE/STEP 
 
After 3 years Grade DE; Step D 
 
After 4 years Grade DE; Step E 
 
After 5 years Grade DE; Step F 
 
For the purposes of this Article, the bi-weekly pay period for fire 
fighters assigned to a 24/72 hour work schedule, as defined in Article 33, 
shall consist of eighty-four (84) cumulative hours, and the bi-weekly pay 
period for fire fighters assigned to a forty (40) hour work week shall 
consist of eighty (80) hours. 
 
Section B. 
 
Any employee covered by this Agreement who holds one or more of the 
following certificates shall be paid an additional bi-weekly amount for 
each certificate in addition to his/her appropriate base rate as follows; 
 
Fire Inspector: 2% 
 
Emergency Medical Technician: 5% 
 
Fire Science: 2% 
 
Any employee covered by this contract who holds an Florida State 
instructors certificate shall be paid an additional 2% above his/her 
regular base rate of pay for all hours that he/she is assigned by the 
Division Director to job duties directly involving training. 
 
Those members of the Training/Inspection Section who hold a Florida State 
Inspector's Certificate will be paid an additional 7% differential 
bi-weekly in addition to the appropriate base rate. Those members of the 
Training/Inspection Section who do not hold a Florida State Inspector's 
Certificate will be paid an additional 2% differential bi-weekly in 
addition to the appropriate base rate. 
 
Any employee permanently assigned to a 40 hour work week, but not assigned 
to the Training/Inspection Section, shall be paid an additional 2% 
bi-weekly amount in addition to the appropriate base rate. 
 
Section C. 
 
Effective November 1, 1997, all employer contributions to any deferred 
compensation plan for any and all employees covered by this Agreement shall 

cease. 
 
Effective within 30 days of November 1, 1997, all bargaining unit employees 
employed in a bargaining unit position, as of October 1, 1997, shall 
receive a one-time cash payment not part of base salary, in the amount of 
$1,900.00. 
 
Effective within 30 days of November 1, 1998, all bargaining unit employees 
employed in a bargaining unit position, as of October 1, 1998, shall 
receive a one-time cash payment, not part of base salary, in the amount of 
$1,900.00. 
 
Effective within 30 days of November 1, 1999, all bargaining unit employees 
employed in a bargaining unit position, as of October 1, 1999, shall 
receive a one-time cash payment, not part of base salary, in the amount of 
$1,900.00. 
 
The County agrees, for those employees who choose to have this amount 
automatically transferred to a deferred compensation plan, to facilitate 
that with the Payroll Section of the Accounting Division. 
 
APPENDIX A 
 
PAY PLAN 
 
All pay rates are bi-weekly. 
 
STEPS 
 
GRADES A B C D E F 
 
FF 1,157.28 1,303.27 1,368.30 1,445.26 1,532.86 1,609.84 
 
DE - - - 1,531.75 1,624.83 1,706.43 
 
LT - - - 1,624.83 1,722.52 1,804.93 
 
CPT - - - 1,804.93 1,896.50 1,993.37 
 
AC - - - - - 2,092.92 
 
ARTICLE 24 
 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
 
The Union recognizes the right of the County to establish reasonable rules 
and regulations for the safe and efficient conduct of County business and 
reasonable penalties for violation of such rules. Established rules, 
regulations and penalties will be posted within the Division and shall be 
applied indiscriminately to all employees. 
 
Changes in present rules shall not become effective until they have been 
posted for seven (7) calendar days and a copy given to the Union at the 
time of posting. 
 
The Union agrees that the County's Civil Service Rules and Regulations and 
the Personnel Procedures Manual (except where such rules conflict with the 

provisions of the Agreement, in which case the Agreement prevails), the 
Workplace Violence Policy (as modified by the parties side letter), and the 
Broward County Safety Manual apply to employees covered by this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 25 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS 
 
Every probationary employee must, as a condition of employment, be examined 
by a physician, designated by the County, who must certify that the 
employee is capable of performing the duties of a fire fighter. This 
examination shall include an electrocardiogram. 
 
Every employee covered by this Agreement may be required to undergo 
periodic physical examinations. All physical examinations, probationary or 
periodic, shall be paid for by the County, but any follow-up treatment or 
examinations shall be paid for by the employee. 
 
ARTICLE 26 
PERSONAL LIABILITY PROTECTION 
 
The County agrees to purchase and maintain continuous coverage of insurance 
up to the limits of its liability protection for each employee covered by 
this Agreement for personal liability arising out of any act or omission of 
act in the course of employment unless the employee acted in bad faith, 
with malice or with wanton willful disregard of human rights, safety or 
property. 
 
ARTICLE 27 
EDUCATIONAL REIMBURSEMENT 
 
Employees covered by this Agreement may participate in the County's General 
Education Reimbursement Program. The eligibility requirements and the 
amount, type and condition precedent to obtaining reimbursement, will be 
established by the County. Participation in this program is intended to 
cover undergraduate/graduate and other coursework consistent with the 
program's guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE 28 
OVERTIME 
 
It is agreed that overtime work is to be assigned on a relatively equal 
basis to all fire fighters who are qualified to perform the work available. 
In order to facilitate this, overtime will be scheduled by a seniority 
list. A fire fighter, at his/her option, may request that his/her name be 
removed (or added) from the list. A record will be maintained indicating 
the date of call and the response from each person called as to whether 
request to work overtime was refused, no answer, sick, or vacation. If a 
fire fighter refuses, he/she will automatically be passed by until a 
complete cycle of the seniority list has been made. If all the fire 
fighters in the appropriate rank refuse, the Division Director or designee 
may require someone to work. 
 
In cases of emergency, the Division Director or designee may waive the 
established procedure. 
 
A copy of the above records shall be made available to the Union upon 
request. 

 
ARTICLE 29 
PERSONAL PROPERTY DAMAGE 
 
Section A. Personal Property Damage 
 
Employees whose personal property is damaged under certain conditions while 
working are to be reimbursed by the County for the cost of repairing the 
damages or for replacement if repairs cannot be made. 
 
The County will reimburse the employee if: 
 
A.The damage occurred during the employee's working hours; and 
 
B. The damage occurred while in the performance of the employee's duties; 
and 
 
C. The employee was wearing the necessary protective gear; and 
 
D. The employee was not breaking normal rules of conduct or violating 
safety rules. 
 
Section B. Loss of Glasses or Watches 
 
Employees whose prescription glasses, sun glasses, or watches are lost 
under certain conditions while working are to be reimbursed by the County 
for the cost of replacement. 
 
The County will reimburse the employee if: 
 
A.The loss occurred during the employee's working hours; and 
 
B. The loss occurred while in the performance of the employee's duties; and 
 
C. The employee was wearing the necessary protective gear; and 
 
D. The employee was not breaking normal rules of conduct or violating 
safety rules. 
 
Section C. 
 
The County will not reimburse the employee if damage or loss occurred: 
 
a)During meal break or other breaks. 
 
b)Due to employee breaking normal rules of conduct expected in a business 
environment or violating safety rules. 
 
Section D. 
 
The claim must be presented on a prescribed form to the Division Director. 
The form must be approved by the employee's supervisor and Division 
Director and submitted within five (5) working days after damage occurs. A 
witness to the accident should be included whenever possible. 
 
Section E. 
 

The County reserves the right to require documented proof of loss, 
including proof of ownership, and to conduct investigations of any claim 
made against the County under the terms and conditions of this Article. 
 
Fraudulent claims made by an employee(s) shall constitute just cause for 
disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. 
 
ARTICLE 30 
MINIMUM MANNING 
 
The County agrees that, in order to provide a minimum level of safety to 
personnel in the bargaining unit, there shall be no less than four (4) fire 
fighters, one (1) of which will be a Driver/Engineer, and a certified fire 
fighter officer on duty in the Port at all times. 
 
ARTICLE 31 
IMPASSE RESOLUTION 
 
In the event that there is an impasse in negotiations concerning the 
negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement or the mutual 
amendment of an existing collective bargaining agreement, the parties agree 
that the resolution of any impasse issues shall be governed by the 
provisions of Florida Statutes Chapter 447, as amended. 
 
ARTICLE 32 
WORK SCHEDULE 
 
It is agreed that during the term of this Agreement, unless otherwise 
mutually agreed, the fire fighters covered by this contract will be 
organized into four (4) fire fighter squads, each of which will be headed 
by a Captain. Each squad will be scheduled to work a twenty-four (24) hour 
shift schedule, (twenty-four (24) hours on duty, seventy-two (72) hours off 
duty), programmed over an eight (8) week cycle as shown in Exhibit A 
attached hereto. Scheduled duty shall not exceed a cumulative average of 
forty-two (42) hours per week during the term of this Agreement. 
 
During the period this schedule is in effect, each employee who works his 
full scheduled shift will receive eighty-four (84) hours of straight time 
pay for each pay period plus any overtime pay due at the rate of one and 
one-half (1 1/2) times the straight time rate for all hours worked in any 
work week beyond his/her scheduled hours. One week of vacation pay shall 
consist of forty-two (42) hours of straight time pay. 
 
An employee will accumulate sick leave at the rate prescribed in Article 6 
of this Agreement. Illness occurring on a scheduled work day for which an 
employee is eligible for sick leave shall be paid and charged at the rate 
of twenty-four (24) hours per scheduled shift. Holiday pay in lieu of time 
off will be paid for at the rate of twelve (12) hours. 
 
It is agreed that single type beds, each with mattress, blanket, and pillow 
will be provided in a suitable area at Port Everglades for the use of fire 
fighters between the hours of 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. The use of these facilities 
will be subject to reasonable rules and regulations. This will provide a 
facility for the resting of squads engaged in lengthy or arduous fire 
fighting , oil spills, or other emergencies. This will also provide the 
opportunity for a fire fighter to rest or relax between watch duties 
providing that all required job responsibilities are fully met. 

 
The work week of the Administrative Captain, Operations Captain, 
Captain/Inspector and fire fighters detailed to the Training/Inspection 
Section shall be four (4) days per week, ten (10) hours per day. Any work 
done in excess of 40 hours during the work week shall be paid at the 
overtime rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate of pay. 
 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SUN. MON. TUES. WEDN. THURS. FRI. SAT. HOURS PER WEEK 
 
  1. A B C D A B C 48 
  2. D A B C D A B 48 
  3. C D A B C D A 48 
  4. B C D A B C D 24 
  5. A B C D A B C 48 
  6. D A B C D A B 48 
  7. C D A B C D A 48 
  8. B C D A B C D 24 
 
SHIFTS: Relieve 0800 
 
Each squad will rotate as a unit. 
 
ARTICLE 33 
POLITICAL ACTIVITY 
 
There shall be no restrictions placed on employees with regard to political 
activity. Employees may hold membership in, or support any political party, 
run for political office, vote as they choose, express their opinions and 
wishes on political issues and candidates, maintain partisan neutrality and 
attend political functions as long as these activities do not take place 
during employees working hours. 
 
ARTICLE 34 
PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIES 
 
Section A. 
 
Promotions or vacancies in unit positions above the entry level shall be 
filled by internally promoting permanent employees in the Division at Port 
Everglades. Applications for promotions shall be made available at the 
Division of Human Resources and in accordance with the Civil Service Rules 
and Regulations. 
 
Section B. 
 
Promotions or vacancies shall be filled from eligibility lists. The 
certification from eligibility lists shall be determined by the rule of top 
three scores. The duration of such eligibility lists shall remain in effect 
for the period of one and one half (1 1/2) years and may be extended for a 
period of six (6) months at the discretion of the Director of Human 
Resources. 
 
Section C. Eligibility 
 
The following criteria will be the requirements of eligibility to compete 

in promotional examinations: 
 
  1. Driver Engineer: must be a fire fighter in the Division at Port 
     Everglades for a minimum of three (3) years. 
  2. Lieutenant: must be a fire fighter in the Division at Port Everglades 
     for a minimum of five (5) years, and be a current, Driver Engineer, be 
     on the currently valid Driver Engineer eligible list, or have formerly 
     held non-probationary status as a Driver Engineer who voluntarily 
     demoted for non-disciplinary reasons. 
  3. Captain: must be a Lieutenant in the Division at Port Everglades for a 
     minimum of one (1) year. 
 
Vacancies in the job title of Administrative Captain shall be filled by 
appointment by the Division Director. 
 
Section D. 
 
The following requirements shall be in effect with regard to promotional 
procedures: 
 
  1. time in grade eligibility requirement for promotional examinations 
     shall be measured in terms of continuous service. An interruption for 
     an authorized leave of absence without pay shall not constitute a 
     break in service; however, the time of a leave of absence without pay 
     shall not be credited as time in services, and 
  2. time in grade eligibility criteria for promotional examinations shall 
     be by the closing date as published on the official Division of Human 
     Resources job announcement. 
 
Promotions to any rank/classification covered by this Agreement shall be 
determined by any combination of the following: experience/education, 
written examination, oral board, and, where feasible, by a performance/ 
practical examination. 
 
As part of determining the resulting rank certification determination, an 
oral examining board will be convened which board will consist of three (3) 
members selected by the Director of Human Resources. It is the intent of 
the County to establish the oral examining board consisting of three (3) 
members of equal or higher rank to the position being interviewed for, from 
employers other than the County. 
 
A cut-off score on each examination phase will be necessary to attain an 
overall minimum qualifying score. 
 
Section C. 
 
Promotional examination announcements shall be posted conspicuously at Port 
Everglades for fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the official closing 
date. 
 
Source of information for all promotional examinations shall be determined 
through the County. 
 
The Division of Human Resources will coordinate with the Division to 
schedule test or interview times to minimize potential hardships on 
employees due to shift scheduling. 
 

Section D. 
 
In the event the employee believes he/she has been discriminated against in 
the examination process, the Office of Equal Opportunity shall be available 
to investigate those concerns. 
 
ARTICLE 35 
TERM OF CONTRACT 
 
The provisions of this Agreement shall become effective on ratification by 
the Union and approval of the Board of County Commissioners for Broward 
County, Florida and shall remain in full force and effect until September 
30, 2000. It shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter 
unless either party shall notify the other, in writing, at least sixty (60) 
days prior to the anniversary date, that it desires to terminate or modify 
this agreement. In the event that such notice is given, negotiations shall 
begin not later than thirty (30) days prior to the anniversary date. 
 
SIGNATURE PAGE 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be 
 
executed and signed by their duly authorized representatives, as of this 
 
day of , 19 . 
 
PORT EVERGLADES FIRE FIGHTERS BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA 
 
ASSOCIATION, INC., LOCAL 1989 BY ITS BOARD OF COUNTY 
 
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COMMISSIONERS 
 
FIRE FIGHTERS, AFL-CIO, CLC 
 
_______________________________ _______________________________ 
 
President Commission Chair 
 
_______________________________ _______________________________ 
 
Secretary-Treasurer County Administrator 
 
_________________________________ _______________________________ 
 
Witness Director of Human Resources 
 
_________________________________ _______________________________ 
 
Witness Labor Relations Manager 
 

