Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

31

Language English

Country United States

State

FL

Union IAFF (International Association of Fire Fighters) AFL-CIO

Local Local 3333, Broward County Professional Paramedics and Fire Fighters

Firefighting occupations 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Government Supervisors of Broward Co., FL
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 2000

EndYear 2001

Source

http://www.broward.org/hui02822.pdf

Original_format PDF (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

- Between -

THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

- And -

BROWARD COUNTY PROFESSIONAL
PARAMEDICS AND FIREFIGHTERS

 LOCAL 3333, OF THE INTERNATIONAL

 ASSOCIATION OF FIREFIGHTERS

Effective FY 2000/2001 

Article 
Number

 1
 2
 3
 4
 5 
 6
 7
 8 
 9
10           
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35     
36
37
38         
39
40

  

     

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Subject

Page
Number

Preamble
Recognition
Non-Discrimination
Payroll Deductions
Services to the Union
Labor Management Relations
Safety/Health/Wellness
Employment and Probation
Personal Vehicle Usage
Libraries
Loss or Damage of Personal Goods
Leave of Absence Without Pay          
Civic Duty
Military Leave
Legal Counsel
Savings Clause
No Strikes or Lockouts             
Re-Opener Clause
Public Information Awareness
Wages
Promotions and Vacancies      
Security
Management Rights
Prevailing Rights
Union Business
Rules and Regulations               
Grievances and Arbitration Procedures
Performance Review
Vehicle Accidents/Injuries
Seniority
Temporary Pay Upgrading
Hours of Work
Outside Employment
Professional Status    
Quarters 
Parking
Uniforms
Annual Leave 
Sick Leave
Holidays

               

     

 

1
2-3
4
5-6
7
8
9-10

12
13
14
15-16
17-18
19
20
21

23
24
25-29

34-35

37
38
39
40-44
45
46
47-50

52-53
54-55
56
57
58
59-60
61-63
64-68
69-70

11

22

30-33

36     

51

 

   

-i-

IAFF 3333

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Article 
Number

Subject

Page
Number

     

41
42
43
44
45

46
47
48
49
50

51
52
53

 

 

    
  

Bereavement Leave
Disability Leave   
Shift Exchange
Insurance
Hazardous Materials Special Incident
Response Team Medical Surveillance
Program
Professional Certification              
Educational Reimbursement
Overtime
Maintenance
Communicable Diseases/Hazardous
Materials
Driver Engineer
Letters of Understanding
Term of Agreement
Signature Page
Appendix A - Pay Plan
Appendix B - PERC Order      

 

     

71-72

 

73-75
76-77
78
79-83

84-85

     
96-97

86-87
88-95

98 

99
100
101
102
103-105    

 

- ii -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 1

PREAMBLE

A.

This Agreement is entered into by and between the Board of County Commissioners,

Broward County, hereinafter referred to as the "County" and the Broward County Professional

Paramedics and Fire Fighters, Local 3333, International Association of Fire Fighters,

hereinafter referred to as the "Union".

B.

It is the purpose of this agreement to promote stable and harmonious relations between the

County and the Union, to provide equitable adjustment of differences which may arise

thereunder, and to comprise agreed standards of wages, hours, and other conditions of

employment.

C.

This Agreement shall supersede any policies, operational and procedural manuals,

ordinances, regulations, or practices of the County which are contrary to or inconsistent with

the terms of this Agreement.

- 1 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 2

RECOGNITION

A.

For the purposes of this Agreement and the provisions herein contained, the County

recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the bargaining unit consisting of the

employees filling the job classifications within the Broward County Division of  Fire Rescue as

described below:

Included:

1.

Firefighter/Paramedic, Fire Rescue Driver Engineer, Fire Rescue Lieutenant,

Fire Rescue Captain, Fire Rescue Battalion Chief, Fire Rescue Division Chief.

2.

The following classifications are included in the bargaining unit only while

incumbents occupy those classifications:

Firefighter, Paramedic, Driver Engineer, Rescue Lieutenant, Rescue Captain, Rescue

Battalion Chief, Rescue Division Chief, Fire Lieutenant, Fire Captain, Fire Battalion

Chief, and Fire Division Chief.

No future appointments or promotions will be made to these classifications.  As

positions with these assigned classifications become vacant, they will be reclassified

to one of the classifications listed in sub-section 1 above.  The intent of this

sub-section is that over time and through attrition the job classes listed herein will be

eliminated from the bargaining unit.

Excluded:

Director of  Fire Rescue, Deputy Fire Rescue Chief, Assistant Fire Rescue Chief,

- 2 -

IAFF 3333

Special Projects Coordinators, all clerical classifications, all maintenance

classifications and any other support staff members in classifications not

specifically included above.

B.

The Parties agree to mutually petition the Florida Public Employees Relations Commission

(PERC) to amend the bargaining unit consistent with the language of Section A of this Article. 

Therefore, it is understood that no changes in the composition of said bargaining unit as

described in Section A may occur during the term of this Agreement until all procedural steps

provided for by Chapter 447, Florida Statutes have taken place, or the parties mutually agree

to such changes.

C.

Job titles not now existing in the  Fire Rescue Division, created during the term of this

Agreement and encompassing work currently assigned to bargaining unit members, shall

include one (1) of the designations listed in Section A of this Article unless otherwise mutually

agreed to by the parties.  The Fire Rescue Division Chief/Director may make temporary work

assignments not to exceed twelve (12) months unless mutually agreed to by the parties. 

Twelve (12) months after the signing of this Agreement either party may reopen paragraph C

of this Article.  These negotiations would be subject to the 447 Impasse Procedure.

D.

Creation of New Classifications: Newly created classifications shall be implemented after

notice to the Union, with the right for the Union to negotiate compensation for said new

classification prior to implementation.

- 3 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 3

NON-DISCRIMINATION

No employee covered by this Agreement shall be discriminated against by the County or the

Union because of residential living arrangements, and/or as otherwise protected by law, i.e:

Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Broward County Human Rights Act.  Any such claim must be

referred to the Broward County Division of Equal Employment and Small Business

Opportunity.

- 4 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 4

PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS

A.

Upon the receipt of written authorization by an employee, the County will deduct bi-weekly, from

that employee's wages the amount specified as Union deductions on the authorization and any

additional funds designated by the employee, (i.e., dues, uniform deductions, union insurance

deductions, additional deductions). The County shall permit the Union to maintain two separate

payroll deduction slots (one pre-tax and one post-tax) designated specifically for the Union

Insurance Trust Fund.   It shall be the responsibility of the Union to notify the County, in writing, of

any across the board changes in the dues structure at least 30 days before the change is to

become effective.  The Union will also supply at that time to the County a list of all members

contributing excess funds, and the amounts and purpose of said funds.  The County shall not

deduct Union fines, penalties, or special assessments from the wages of individual members.

If an employee does not receive a salary check in any pay period or if the check is not large

enough to satisfy dues deduction, the County will make no collection from that employee.

Any member of the Union may request that the County cease deducting Union membership dues

from his/her wages by providing the County and the Union with thirty (30) days written notice.  The

County will make every effort to notify the Union as soon as possible of such withdrawals.

The Union shall indemnify and hold harmless the County from any and all claims or demands in

connection therewith based upon the County's participation in dues deduction under this Article.

The County shall have no responsibility or liability for any monies once sent to the Union.  Further,

the Union shall hold the County harmless for any non-intentional errors in the administration of the

dues deduction system. 

- 5 -

IAFF 3333

B.

C.

D.

E.

The Union hereby authorizes the County to rely upon and honor certifications by the Treasurer of

the Union regarding the amount to be deducted and legality of the adopting action specifying

such amount of Union deduction.

F.

Amounts withheld as payroll deductions shall be paid by check or wire transfer to the Union within

thirty (30) calendar days of the date on which the amounts were withheld.  The County and the

Union will be responsible for any charges imposed by their respective financial institutions for

maintaining any accounts or financial transactions.

- 6 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 5

SERVICES TO THE UNION

A.

The County shall furnish the Union a copy of all written rules and regulations pertaining to

employer-employee regulations, including but not limited to: County Administrative Orders,

Personnel Rules, Civil Services Rules, Division Operational Procedures, Special Orders,

General Orders, Bulletins, Training Notices, Videos, and other available material regularly

distributed to members of the bargaining unit.

B.

The Union shall be permitted to utilize the Division "inter-office mail system" and make

attachments to the paychecks.  The Union will submit material to be placed in the "inter-office

mail system" or attachments to the paychecks, to the County within a reasonable time prior to

the mail going out or the paychecks being distributed.  The mail and attachments to be

distributed will be informative to the members.  Management may, however, ask the Union for

assistance in making those attachments to the paychecks.

C.

This Agreement shall be printed and supplied to the Union.  The Union will receive twenty (20)

copies, and one (1) copy to all work locations, by the County, within sixty (60) working days

following ratification, at no cost to the Union.

D.

The County shall designate a computer terminal with e-mail access to the Union.  Said

computer terminal shall be located at a mutually agreeable location.

- 7 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 6

LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS

A.

The Director of the Fire Rescue Division on request, shall schedule a conference with the

Union leadership to discuss subjects of concern.  Such conferences may be requested by the

Fire Rescue Director, or the Union President, and shall be scheduled not less than once

every two months.

B.

The purpose of these Informal Conferences is to facilitate the communication and resolution

of mutual concerns.  They shall not be construed to constitute a re-opening of negotiations or

resolution of grievances.

C. 

There shall be a Labor Management Committee consisting of representation from Local

3333 and Management.  The committee shall meet on request of either party, and at least

quarterly, to discuss and develop the Operations Policy Manual.  The Committee shall have

the authority to make recommendations to the Division Director.

- 8 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 7

SAFETY/HEALTH/WELLNESS

A. 

The parties agree to abide by published standards on sanitation, safety, and health in

accordance with applicable Federal, State and County Statutes, or ordinances pertaining

thereto, as mutually agreed upon by the Joint Occupational Safety and Health (J.O.S.H.)

Committee.

B. 

Protective devices, wearing apparel, and other equipment necessary to properly protect the

Bargaining Unit Members shall be provided by the County, and shall meet or exceed the level

of protection currently provided to the personnel.

C. 

J.O.S.H. committee shall be established.  This Committee shall at a minimum include two (2)

representatives and one (1) alternate representative of the Fire Rescue Division's

management, two (2) representatives and one (1) alternate of the Broward County

Professional Paramedics and Fire Fighters, I.A.F.F. Local 3333, and the Director of Risk

Management or his/her designee, and additional members as mutually agreed to by both

parties.  One member, elected by the Committee, shall serve as the Chairperson. 

Chairperson ship shall be on a one year rotating basis.  One member, elected by the

Committee, shall serve as Secretary.

D. 

This committee will meet at mutually agreed times, when called by the Chairperson, Union or

Management.  The purpose of such meetings is to discuss safety and health issues and

make recommendations concerning safety and health practices of the Fire Rescue Division. 

The purpose of such meetings shall not be to resolve grievances or negotiate contract

- 9 -

IAFF 3333

language.

E. 

The two (2) primary J.O.S.H. Committee members shall be permitted to attend committee

meetings on duty without the use of union time pool.  Off duty attendance shall be

compensated at the appropriate rate of pay.

F. 

The J.O.S.H. Committee shall conduct meetings for the purpose of developing and making

recommendations for implementing Safety/Health/Wellness programs and shall monitor such

programs for effectiveness.

G. 

The J.O.S.H. Committee established by this Agreement may evaluate changes in

specifications for protective clothing, equipment, tools, appliances and apparatus that relate

to safety, before implementation by the Division, and may issue advisory reports to the

Director of the Division concerning such changes.  The Committee shall be notified in

advance of any proposed changes to the above-mentioned specifications.

- 10 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 8

EMPLOYMENT AND PROBATION

A. 

Consistent with the mutual desire for an integrated Fire Rescue System, eligibility for

employment in a bargaining unit position  shall be, at a minimum, a Florida State Certified

Firefighter with  a Florida State Certified Paramedic Certification.

B. 

New employees shall be considered on probation for a period of twelve (12) months of active

duty from the date of their employment.  The initial probationary period may be extended for

up to an additional ninety (90) calendar days of active duty upon the written request of the

Division Director and the approval of the  Director of Human Resources.  Probationary

employees may be discharged during their probation period for any reason which the

employer deems to be adequate, except a probationary employee shall not be discharged in

violation of the nondiscrimination provisions of this Agreement.  Such decision shall not be

subject to the grievance procedure.

C.  When an employee is promoted, the employee shall serve a six (6) month promotional

probationary period.  If a promoted employee fails to perform satisfactorily the duties of the

higher position during the probationary period in that position, he/she shall be returned to the

position held prior to the promotion.  The question of satisfactory performance as an officer is

within the sole discretion of the County, and such a demotion while on probation shall not be

subject to the grievance procedure.

- 11 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 9

PERSONAL VEHICLE USAGE

A. 

An employee assigned to a station location and who is required to leave the station after

reporting to duty for reassignment to another station during the same work day, and uses

his/her personal vehicle if available for this or other authorized County business, shall be

reimbursed at the established County rate per mile or applicable state rate, whichever is

greater, and in accordance with County policy for use of said personal vehicle.

B. 

The County agrees to attempt to minimize the frequency of use of personal vehicles under this

Article, if practicable.

C.

The issue of reimbursement shall not be dispositive of the issue of whether the employee was

operating their vehicle for County business. Further, the County understands that not all

employees may have a personal vehicle available for use, nor may they wish to use their

personal vehicles on County business.  In such cases, employees will not be reprimanded for

lack of availability or declining to use their personal vehicles.

- 12 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 10

LIBRARIES

A. 

The County will provide and maintain the following reference materials at all Fire and Rescue

Stations as designated below, including, but not limited to:

l.

Operations & Policy Manuals (OPM).

2.  

International Fire Service Training Association (IFSTA) manuals for all fire stations.

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

A complete and continually updated copy of the Civil Service Rules and Regulations
will be maintained at all Chief Officers' work locations.

An updated pharmaceutical reference book for all ALS units.

A dictionary.

An updated paramedic manual for all ALS units.

B.

An additional selection of reading materials and training aids will be maintained and

upgraded in the Training Division/Bureau, and will be available to employees upon request.

- 13 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 11

LOSS OR DAMAGE OF PERSONAL GOODS

It is recognized by the County that members of the Bargaining Unit utilize watches, hearing

aids, corrective eyewear, and dentures in the performance of their duties.  It is agreed that the

County will replace these personal items damaged or lost in the line of duty provided

adequate proof is presented to the appropriate supervisor and operations chief.  It is

understood that, in rare cases, other personal items may be lost or damaged, and in these

cases, the employer shall provide replacement, provided the individual has submitted a list of

personal items used in the performance of duty to the Fire Rescue Director for approval (on a

form prepared by the County and made available to all Bargaining Unit Members).  There

shall be a per occurrence limit of $75.00 for corrective eyewear, hearing aids, and dentures;

$50.00 for watches; and $25.00 for all other approved items.

- 14 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 12

LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

A. 

A leave of absence without pay of up to three (3) months (90 days) may be granted, at the

discretion of the County, to a full-time non-probationary Bargaining Unit Member for illness,

parenting, education, training or other personal good and sufficient reason and subject to the

approval of the Division Director, the Department Director and the  Director of Human

Resources.  The request and approval of such leave of absence will be in writing.  The leave

may be extended, at the discretion of the County, beyond ninety (90) days and up to a

maximum of one (l) calendar year upon the recommendation of the Division and Department

Directors, subject to approval of the County Administrator.  If an employee fails to return to

work upon expiration of the approved term of leave, the employee may be subject to

disciplinary action in accordance with the appropriate Article   of this agreement.

B. 

The County will continue to maintain all insurance coverage for the Bargaining Unit Member

for the first ninety (90) days of a leave of absence without pay.  During any additional

approved leave without pay, the employee may elect to continue his/her insurance coverage

and if so, shall be responsible to pay the premium cost.

C. 

Any employee who obtains any new, unauthorized outside employment while on authorized

leave of absence without pay, automatically forfeits his/her position with the County, unless

the leave of absence is for the purpose of running for political office (as per Civil Service

Rules).

D. 

An employee returning from leave of absence without pay shall be entitled to employment in

- 15 -

IAFF 3333

the same Division/Office and same rank/class in which the employee was employed at the

beginning of the leave, and the appropriate salary.

E. 

During any approved leave of absence without pay in excess of thirty (30) days, no seniority

shall be accumulated after the thirtieth (30th) day of leave.  However, previously earned

seniority shall be retained.

- 16 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 13

CIVIC DUTY

A. 

An  employee  covered  by  this  Agreement  who  is  required  by  the  Division/Department  or

subpoenaed to appear before a court, public body, or Commission to give testimony, or to give

testimony at a deposition, during off-duty hours on any matter arising out of his/her employment,

shall be compensated for actual time spent for such appearance with a minimum of three (3)

hours of compensation at his/her regular rate of pay or premium overtime rate if applicable.  Any

employee required to make such appearance before 10:00 A.M. in this section on a day

following a duty day shall be released from duty at 7:00 A.M.  The employee shall provide notice

of such appearance as soon as possible after receipt.

B. 

Members of the Bargaining Unit who are summoned for Jury Duty will receive time off to comply

with this Civic Duty without loss of pay.  The County must be notified upon receipt of a Jury Duty

summons.

Employees on a 24/48 hour schedule:

If a duty day falls on the day before the first day of Jury Duty, the employee shall be relieved from

duty at the halfway point of the shift without a loss in pay.  Employees who are released from jury

duty without obligation to return, on a regular duty day, shall report to work. The employee shall

be given a maximum of two (2)   hours from their release to report to duty.  Bargaining unit

employees may request additional time to report to work based on extenuating circumstances.

Any additional time shall be subject to approval by an Assistant Chief or Deputy Chief, which

approval shall not be unreasonably denied.

- 17 -

IAFF 3333

Employees on a 12 hour schedule:

Employees working on the night shift shall not be required to report to duty on the shift the night

before the first day of Jury Duty.  Employees released from Jury Duty without obligation to return,

shall report to work a maximum of two (2) hours from release from Jury Duty. Bargaining unit

employees may request additional time to report to work based on extenuating circumstances.

Any additional time shall be subject to approval by an Assistant Chief or Deputy Chief, which

approval shall not be unreasonably denied.

Employees on 40 hour work week:

Employees  shall  be  released  from  duty  without  a  loss  in  pay  to  comply  with  Jury  Duty.

Employees  released  from  Jury  Duty  without  obligation  to  return  shall  report  to  duty.    The

employee shall be given a maximum of two (2) hours from his or her release to report to duty.

Bargaining unit employees may request additional time to report to work based on extenuating

circumstances.  Any additional time shall be subject to approval by an Assistant Chief or Deputy

Chief, which approval shall not be unreasonably denied.

- 18 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 14

MILITARY LEAVE

Military Leave shall be granted in accordance with Broward County Civil Service Rules and

Regulations, Broward County Ordinances, State and Federal law.

- 19 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 15

LEGAL COUNSEL

A.

Upon three (3) days advance notice to the County Attorney's office, Legal Counsel

provided by the County will be made available to a Member of the Bargaining Unit,

subpoenaed or summoned in connection with the Member's employment, in those

cases in which the County or the employee is a party or, in the opinion of the County

Attorney, a potential party.  Notice may be waived by the County Attorney in unusual

circumstances.

B.

C.

Such counsel will be provided at no cost to the Members of the Bargaining Unit.

According to Florida Statutes, Section 768.28 (9), it is recognized that:

No officer, employee or agent of The state or its subdivisions

shall be held personally liable in tort for any injuries or damages

suffered as a result of any act, event, or omission of action in the

scope of his/her employment or function unless such officer,

employee or agent acted in bad faith or with malicious purpose

or in a manner exhibiting wanton and willful disregard of human

rights, safety or property.

- 20 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 16

SAVINGS CLAUSE

A. 

Should any provision of this Agreement, or any part thereof, be rendered or declared

invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted State or Federal legislation,

or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, all other Articles and Sections of

this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement.

B. 

In the event of invalidation of any Article or Section, both the County and the Union

agree to meet within thirty (30) days of such determination to negotiate a replacement

section, if necessary.

- 21 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 17

NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS

A.

The Union agrees that there will be no strikes, stoppage of work, or any interference

with the efficient management of the Fire Rescue Division.  The County, in return,

agrees that there shall be no lockout of employees.

B.

Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed so as to prevent either party

from exercising any rights which said party might have under Local or State Law.

C.

Florida Statutes, Chapter 447.505 states:

No public employee or employee organization may participate in a strike

against a public employer by instigating or supporting, in any manner, a

strike.  Any violation of this section shall subject the violator to the penalties

provided in this part (Florida Statute 447.507).

- 22 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 18

RE-OPENER CLAUSE

By mutual consent of the parties, this contract may be re-opened with thirty (30) days notice to

discuss specific issues, which will be agreed upon mutually by both parties prior to

commencement of negotiations.

If the parties are unable to agree upon an amendment to this contract, then the discussions

shall cease and the parties will not utilize the Public Employee Relations Act (PERA) statutory

impasse resolution procedure.

- 23 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 19

PUBLIC INFORMATION AWARENESS

The County and the Union acknowledge the need for increased public awareness and agree

to work cooperatively to provide the public, media and Fire Rescue Division employees with

appropriate accurate information and to promote a positive public image for the Fire Rescue

Division.  The County agrees to establish the full-time position of Public Information Officer

(PIO).  The PIO shall hold a uniformed position/classification as determined by the Division

Director or Designee and be available on a forty (40) hour work week schedule to facilitate

the exchange of needed Public Information.

- 24 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 20

WAGES

A.       All bargaining unit employees shall be paid according to the salary ranges and

promotional increases provided in Appendix A for classifications within the bargaining unit

effective as specified in Appendix A.  Appendix A has been modified to reflect the positions

and steps for FY 2000/2001.

B.

Effective October 1, 2000, all employees shall receive a two and one half percent (2 ½

%) wage increase.   All pay rates for the steps in the pay plan, will be extended upward two and

one-half percent (2½%), as delineated in Appendix A.

In accordance with Appendix A, bargaining unit employees not at the maximum rate of the

pay range shall advance one step in the pay plan on the employee’s anniversary date.

C.

All new hired employees, during the term of this Agreement will remain at the entry level

until successful completion of a six (6) month period.  Upon successful completion of this six (6)

month period, the employee will move to the Probationary Step.  Upon successful completion of

the entire probationary period (one year), the employee will move to Step 1.

D.

Longevity Plan:   

For fiscal year 2000/2001 (October 1, 2000 through September 30, 2001), bargaining unit

members who have completed the required years of continuous service as of, or on October 1,

2000, will receive a Gross Lump Sum longevity payment, within three (3) pay periods  of signing

this new Labor Agreement, based on the following years of service:

  15 -19 years:

        $    750

20-24 years:

25 years and over:

$ 1,000

  $ 1,250

- 25 -

IAFF 3333

E.         Effective October 1,1993, EMT incentive pay for bargaining unit members in

 Fire related classifications will no longer be considered as a pay adjustment in addition to

straight time base rate of pay, but rather will be considered to be incorporated into straight

time base rate of pay.  Bargaining unit employees in Fire related classifications who currently

possess a valid Florida State EMT certification, and who are employed as of the signing of

the agreement, must maintain an EMT in order to continue receiving the related

compensation. This section shall not apply to Firefighter/PMs hired after the signing of the

Agreement. Bargaining unit employees in Fire related classifications employed as of the

signing of the agreement and who do not, as a minimum, hold a Florida State EMT certification,

shall make their intentions known to the County in writing within thirty (30) calendar days from

the signing of this Agreement of their desire or lack thereof in obtaining EMT certification within

the term of this Agreement.  Non-EMT bargaining unit employees in Fire related classifications

must select one of the options (1,2, or 3) listed below and specify that option in the writing to the

County:

1.  Desire to obtain EMT certification: Bargaining unit employees in Fire related classifications

shall receive a one-time gross cash payment equal to five percent (5%) of their straight time base

rate of pay less applicable taxes, upon receipt of a Florida State EMT certification.  Employees

selecting this Option 1 shall be personally responsible for obtaining their EMT certification on

their own time and without additional compensation from the County.  Article 47 Educational

Reimbursement however, shall apply.

2.  Desire to obtain EMT certification: Bargaining unit employees in Fire related classifications

shall receive paid-time-off to attend one (1) Florida State EMT certification course established

by the County.  This course will be given at no cost to the employee and off duty attendance shall

- 26 -

IAFF 3333

not  be  compensated.    Option  1  of  this  agreement  listed  immediately  above,  shall  not  be

applicable to employees which choose this Option 2.  

3.  No Desire to obtain EMT certification or failure to file an Option: Bargaining unit members in

Fire related classifications who indicate they have no desire to obtain a Florida State EMT

certification or fail to file an option shall be given written  notification by the County that their

individual station assignments and bid opportunities may be limited to available openings not

requiring Florida EMT certification.  Non-EMTs may have certain pay incentives unavailable to

them.  Bargaining unit employees employed as of the signing of this Agreement shall not, as a

condition of continued employment with BCFRD, be required to obtain a Florida State EMT

certification with the understanding that individual station assignments and bid opportunities, and

pay incentives may be limited.  Employees selecting this Option 3 may change their selection

to Option 1 or Option 2 at any time prior to January 1, 1999 by notifying the County in writing of

their decision to change Options.

F.        Effective the beginning of the first full pay period after the signing of this Agreement, all

bargaining unit employees who possess a valid Florida State Paramedic certification and a valid

Florida State Firefighter certification shall be paid at a rate ten percent (10%) above their straight

time base rate of pay after completion of County certification, which shall be provided to all

bargaining unit employees.

G.        Effective the beginning of the first full pay period after the signing of this Agreement,

bargaining unit employees assigned full-time to Special Operations unit or back-up unit (e.g.,

Hazardous Materials Team, Technical Rescue Team, Air Rescue) shall be paid at a rate two and

one half percent (2½ %) above their straight time base rate of pay for a Special Operations

Hazardous Duty assignment allowance.

- 27 -

IAFF 3333

H.         Effective the beginning of the first full pay period after the signing of this Agreement,

bargaining unit members assigned full-time to a work schedule other than 24/48 (for example;

Caller Aid, Air Rescue, Fire Prevention, Logistics, Communications, Training) shall receive an

alternate assignment pay adjustment of two and one-half percent (2.5%).

I.        Whenever the term straight time base rate of pay is used in this Article, it shall be construed

to mean the individual employee's established salary, exclusive of overtime, holiday bonus, or

any other non-salary compensation (e.g., educational reimbursement).

J.           Bargaining Unit employees are to receive one (1) hour of pay for each period of eight

(8) consecutive hours that they are assigned by the Division Director or designee to standby duty

on weekdays, weekends, and holidays, which shall be paid at their straight time base rate of pay.

Employees assigned to standby duty are required to maintain a state of readiness and to

respond  when  called  to  duty.    In  addition  to  the  standby  duty  pay,  employees  shall  be

compensated for hours actually worked while on standby, if any, at their straight time base rate

of pay or premium overtime rate, whichever is applicable, consistent with the overtime provisions

of the Articles on Hours of Work, and Overtime.

K.      Upon proof provided by the employee, the following Educational Incentive remuneration

shall be added to the current straight time base rate of pay for employees holding the following

degrees:

1.  Florida State Fire Officer 1 or Fire Science Certificate -  2.5% 

2.  Associate Degree in Fire Science - 2.5%

3.  Associate Degree in Emergency Medicine - 2.5%

4.  Bachelor of Arts/Science in any Medical, Fire, or government related field as approved    

 by the Division Director - 2.5%.

- 28 -

IAFF 3333

These incentives shall be cumulative, however no employee shall be entitled to receive more than a total

of seven and half percent (7.5%) Educational Incentive remuneration.

- 29 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 21

PROMOTIONS AND VACANCIES

A.

When the County determines that a promotion or vacancy in a bargaining unit positions above

the entry level is to be filled, it shall be filled by internally promoting non-probationary  employees

from within bargaining unit of the Broward County  Fire Rescue Division. Applications for

promotions shall be made available at the Broward County  Division of Human Resources.

B.

Promotions or vacancies shall be filled from eligibility lists in order from the top.  All ties shall

be broken by bargaining unit seniority. Eligibility lists for all classifications in the Bargaining Unit

shall be maintained at all times by the  Division of Human Resources.  The certification, ranking

and qualifications shall be determined by the Director of  Human Resources in accordance with

Civil Service System practices and procedures.

C.

The duration of promotional eligibility lists for bargaining unit classifications shall be for two (2)

years or until exhausted, whichever comes first.  If the eligibility list is exhausted prior to

expiration, the examination will again be given.

D.

The following requirements shall be in effect with regard to promotional procedures:

1)  time in grade eligibility requirement for promotional examinations shall be measured in

terms of continuous service.  An interruption for an authorized leave of absence without pay

shall not constitute a break in continuous service; however, the time of a leave of absence

without pay shall not be credited as time in service, and

2)  the time in grade eligibility criteria for promotional examinations shall be by the closing date

as published on the official  Division of Human Resources job announcement.

3) all promotions shall be filled from persons holding the next lower rank, no skipping ranks shall

- 30 -

IAFF 3333

be allowed.

4) experience working out of classification shall not be a consideration for promotion.

E.

Promotions to any rank/classification covered by this Agreement shall be determined by:

experience/education,  written  examination,  oral  board,  and,  where  feasible,  by  a

performance/practical examination.

F.

As part of determining the resulting rank certification determination, an oral examining board

will be convened which board will consist of three (3) members selected by the Director of

Human Resources  for Broward County.  It is the intent of the County to establish the oral

examining board consisting of two (2) members of equal or higher rank to the position being

interviewed for from employers other than the Broward County Commission and one (1)

member  of  the    Division  of  Human  Resources  (Civil  Service).    In  the  event  oral  board

participants outside the County's employment are not available, the examining board will be

established and convened solely by the recruitment and examination unit of the  Division of

Human Resources.

A cut-off score on each examination phase will be necessary to attain an overall minimum

qualifying score.

Applicants receiving failing/passing grades on a promotional examination shall have the right

to appeal their examination papers within ten (10) days of receipt of the mailing notice. Formal

appeals of rating may be made to the Broward County  Director of Human Resources who shall

consider all claims of error and shall render his/her decision which shall be final and binding and

without further recourse.

G.

H.

I.

Upon written request of the Union, the  Director of Human Resources may elect to appoint a

representative from the  Division of Human Resources/Office of Equal Opportunity (OEO) to

- 31 -

IAFF 3333

attend the selection interview process within the  Fire Rescue Division. 

J.

Promotional examination announcements shall be posted  conspicuously in each Fire Rescue

Station, Fire Prevention Branch  Office, Logistics Branch Office, Communications Center,

Headquarters, and Training Branch Office for fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the official

closing date.

K.

The written examination process shall be given no less than twenty-two (22) calendar days after

closing of applications and not more than thirty-seven (37) calendar days after closing of

applications.

L.

M.

N.

O.

Source of information for all promotional examinations shall be determined through the  Division

of Human Resources.

The  Division of Human Resources will coordinate with the  Fire Rescue Division to schedule

test or interview times to eliminate potential hardships on employees due to shift scheduling.

In the event the employee believes he/she has been discriminated against in the examination

process, the Office of Equal Opportunity shall be available to investigate those concerns.

Any reinstatements into the Bargaining Unit shall be to entry level Firefighter or Paramedic only.

Reinstated Unit members shall not have accrued seniority during separation and time in-service

shall be considered interrupted.  Seniority shall start on the date of reinstatement.

P.

If the anniversary date of a promotional appointee is within 30 days after the date of the

selection, the effective date of the promotional appointment will be postponed to the beginning

of the first pay period subsequent to the appointee’s anniversary date.  Application of this

provision will not entitle an appointee to retroactive compensation.

Q.

The  Division  of  Human  Resources  will  prepare,  prior  to  the  administration  of  written

examinations, a basic study guide outlining reference material which will be valuable for

- 32 -

IAFF 3333

applicants to review in preparing for the written examination.  The Division of Human Resources

will not be bound to guarantee that a specific answer to every question on every examination

will be drawn directly from the items on the study guide.  Notwithstanding that, the materials will

be job-related and any applicant following the study guide material will be well-served in the

examination process.

R.

Open Filing for promotional opportunities within this bargaining unit will be limited to unusual

circumstances which meet the following criteria:

1.

2.

3.

Requests to open file for a position for which the filing period has closed will only

be considered if submitted prior to the day on which the formal examination

process begins.

Only  those  requests  involving  unusual  circumstances  which  prohibited  the

applicant  from  filing  his/her  application  during  the  filing  period  shall  be

considered for open filing.

The approval authority for such requests shall rest with the Human Resources

Director in consultation with the Director of Fire Rescue Division.

This shall not in any way limit the open filing process for the classification of Firefighter or Paramedic.

- 33 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 22

SECURITY

Section 1:

In the event that all or a portion of the County's Fire Rescue service is to be assumed by

another jurisdiction or agency and bargaining unit members are affected by this change, the County

agrees to pursue with the other jurisdiction or agency the preservation of employment for affected

County employees.

Section 2:

In the event that all or a portion of the Fire Rescue Service of the Broward County Fire

Rescue Division is abolished or assumed by another agency, the County agrees, if requested to

negotiate with the Union, to establish the resolution of the following issues if not provided for

elsewhere in this Agreement:

1) Re-assignment to other jobs within Fire Rescue Division;

2) Re-assignment to other jobs within the County;

3) Preferential hiring lists for jobs within Fire Rescue Division;

4) Preferential hiring lists for jobs within the County;

5) Establishing the length of re-employment rights for required preferential hiring lists. 

Section 3:

In the event the Fire Rescue service is acquired by other agencies, the County shall attempt

to have those acquiring agencies place affected unit members for continued employment with those

acquiring agencies.

- 34 -

IAFF 3333

Section 4:

In the event that a merger, interlocal agreement for fire rescue services, or joint powers

agreement  discussion is authorized by the County involving Fire Rescue services, the Union shall

be so informed by the County and be given the opportunity to discuss the merger as it pertains to

matters covered in this agreement.

If a Fire Rescue service agency merges or is absorbed by the County, the County agrees to

negotiate with the union whether and/or to what extent employees of the merged or absorbed agency

will be covered by this agreement.

Section 5.

Should the County enter into negotiations with another agency of jurisdiction relative to the

possible takeover by the other agency or jurisdiction of work currently being performed by the County

Fire Rescue Division and involving members of the bargaining unit represented by Local 3333, it will

be the County’s position to advise the Union of such negotiations, solicit the Union’s input, and give

such input serious and good faith consideration.  The County’s past policy will continue in terms of

actively advocating for the preservation of employment of County employees and preservation of

attendant benefits to the extent possible during the negotiation process with the other agency or

jurisdiction.

- 35 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE  23 

MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

The Board of County Commissioners, on its own behalf, and on behalf of the County, hereby retains

and reserves unto itself, all powers, rights, authority, duties, and responsibilities conferred upon, and

vested in it by the laws and the Constitutions of the State of Florida, including Section 447.209 of

Florida Statutes and the United States except as modified by the specific terms and provisions of

this contract.

447.209 Public employer's rights.- It is the right of the public employer to determine

unilaterally the purpose of each of its constituent agencies, set standards of services to be

offered to the public, and exercise control and discretion over its organization and

operations.  It is also the right of the public employer to direct its employees, take

disciplinary action for proper cause, and relieve its employees from duty because of lack of

work or for other legitimate reasons.  However, the exercise of such rights shall not preclude

employees or their representatives from raising grievances, should decisions on the above

matters have the practical consequence of violating the terms and conditions of any

collective bargaining agreement in force or any civil or career service regulation.

History.-s. 3, ch. 74-100.

- 36 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 24 

PREVAILING RIGHTS

During the term of this Agreement all rights, privileges and fringe benefits not specifically addressed

in this Agreement but previously enjoyed by the employees of the County's  Fire Rescue Division

and which rights, privileges and benefits were reduced to writing by appropriate Management

Personnel, will remain in effect unless amended by mutual Agreement.  The practice must be in

writing and only those practices, rights, privileges and fringe benefits in writing shall be considered

as a past practice.

- 37 -

IAFF 3333

               

ARTICLE  25  

UNION BUSINESS

A. 

Up to four (4)  members of the Union, designated by the President, shall be allowed time off

without pay to attend the Union's State Convention.  Each delegate shall be allowed to take

off two (2) shifts during each fiscal year.

B. 

Up to four (4) members of the Union, designated by the President shall be allowed time off

without pay to attend the Union's International Convention.  Each delegate shall be allowed

C. 

D. 

E. 

to take off two (2) shifts once every two (2) years.

Additional designated delegates may, upon request and approval of the Chief, be entitled to

utilize annual leave to attend the conventions.

Union Time pool allocations may be utilized for Union business upon approval by the Union

President or designee.

Employees utilizing union time pool under this Article shall be replaced by the County

according to the overtime procedures set forth in the Overtime and Hours of Work Articles of

this Agreement utilizing union time pool allocations.

F.

No employee covered by this Agreement shall be discriminated against by the County or the

Union because of Union membership, Union Activity or lack thereof.

- 38 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 26

RULES AND REGULATIONS

The Broward County Civil Service Rules and Regulations shall apply to bargaining unit members

except where such Rules and Regulations are in conflict with the provisions of this labor agreement. 

Reference Chapter 447.601 of Florida State Statute.

- 39 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 27  

GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURES

A.

It is agreed to and understood by both parties that there shall be a procedure for the

resolution of grievances or misunderstandings between the parties arising from the

application or interpretation of this Agreement.  This grievance procedure is the exclusive

method of resolving disputes relating to the application and interpretation of this Agreement. 

The County reserves the right to discipline, demote, suspend, or discharge a permanent full

time employee for just causes; and such action shall be subject to the grievance procedure.  

An employee may request the presence of a union representative at an interview they feel

may lead to disciplinary action.  Such interview shall be conducted at a reasonable time.  All

bargaining unit employees shall be subject to the Firefighter’s Bill of Rights.

B.

Grievances will be processed in the following manner. Prior to initiating a formal grievance,

the employee must discuss the alleged grievance with their immediate supervisor outside

the bargaining unit.

Step 1. Initial Review.  A written grievance must be presented on a grievance form

provided by the County within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the employee

knew or should have known of the events given rise to an alleged grievance.   Upon

receipt of a written grievance, the Fire Rescue Director or designee shall investigate

the facts and conduct a meeting within ten (10) working days with the grievant, Union,

Fire Rescue personnel and any other persons possessing knowledge considered

critical by the Fire Rescue Director.  The Union will be notified by the Fire Rescue

Division of the time and place of such a meeting and shall be entitled to attend.  The

- 40 -

IAFF 3333

grievant may be accompanied at this meeting by a Union representative. The Fire

Rescue Director or designee shall notify the grievant and the Union of  the decision in

writing within ten (10) working days following the date of the meeting. 

Step 2. Department Review    If the grievance is not resolved at Initial Review, it must

be forwarded by the grievant within ten (10) working days of the Step 1 decision to the

Director of the Department of Safety and Emergency Services.  The Department

Director or designee shall investigate the facts and may conduct a hearing within ten

(10) working days of receipt of the grievance.  If a hearing is scheduled, the grievant

may be accompanied by a Union representative.  The grievant and the Union shall be

notified of the Step 2 decision in writing within ten (10) working days of receipt of the

grievance.

Step 3 - Arbitration   Within ten (10)  working days after the decision by the

Department Director or designee, either the County or the Union shall give the other a

written notice by registered or certified mail of its desire to submit the matter to

arbitration, said notice is to include a written statement of the position of the appealing

party with respect to the arbitrable issue(s) as well as a designation of the article(s) of

the Agreement allegedly violated.  A Demand for Arbitration shall be filed with the

Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and a copy furnished simultaneously to the

other party.  An arbitrator shall then be selected from a list of arbitrators provided by the

Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service; such selection will be made within thirty

(30) calendar days from the date the list is received by the alternate striking of names

(the winner of a coin toss shall elect to strike either first or second) until one name

remains; provided, however, that in the event either party (before any striking of names

- 41 -

IAFF 3333

occurs) feels that the list submitted by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

is unsatisfactory, said party shall have the right to request an additional list of

arbitrators.  As promptly as possible after the arbitrator has been selected, the

arbitrator shall conduct a hearing between the parties and consider the subject matter

of the grievance.  The decision of the arbitrator will be served upon the County and the

Union in writing.  The expenses of the arbitrator shall be paid by the party losing the

award.  If a grievance presents more than one (1) issue and/or if the arbitrator splits

his/her award, costs shall be divided between the parties, providing, however; that

procedural issues shall not be considered to affect the payment of arbitration costs. 

Each party shall be exclusively responsible for compensating its own representative(s)

and witnesses.  If a court reporter or verbatim record of the proceeding is desired, the

expenses of the reporter and the cost of the transcript shall be paid by the party

requesting such.

C.

The submission to the arbitrator shall be based on the written grievance submitted in Step 1

of the Grievance Procedure.  The power and authority of the arbitrator shall be strictly limited

to determination and interpretation of the express terms of this Agreement.  The decision of

the arbitrator is final and binding on both parties.  No decision of any arbitrator or of the

County in one (1) case shall create a basis for retroactive adjustments with reference to any

prior occurrences not a part of the grievance.

D.

All claims for back wages shall be limited to the amount of wages that the grievant otherwise

would have earned from the County, less any unemployment compensation or compensation

from other sources (excluding approved outside employment pursuant to the Outside

Employment Article that he/she may or might have received during the period for which the

- 42 -

IAFF 3333

back pay was awarded.

E.

All Bargaining Unit employees shall use the grievance procedure specified in the Grievance

and Arbitration procedure Article regardless of Union membership or lack thereof and will not

have recourse to Civil Service appeals.  If the Union waives the right to process a grievance

for a unit employee who is not a member of the Union, the employee may process such

grievance through the procedure specified in the  Grievance and Arbitration procedure Article

without Union participation.

F.

The parties agree to abide by the following rules in the processing of grievances:

1. The time limits provided in this Article shall be observed and may be extended only by

mutual written agreement of the Union President or his/her designee and the County

representative for the Step to be affected.

2. A grievance presented to the County shall be dated and signed by the aggrieved

employee and/or Union representative presenting it. A decision rendered shall be written to

the aggrieved employee with a copy sent to the Union and shall be dated and signed by the

County representative at the Step. 

3. A grievance not advanced to the higher Step within the time limit shall be deemed

permanently withdrawn and as having been settled on the basis of the decision most

recently given.

4. In computing time limits under this Article, Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays shall not be

counted. For the purposes of this Article, the Term “working days” is defined as Monday

through Friday. 

5. When a grievance is reduced in writing, there shall be set  forth in the space provided on

the grievance form to be provided by the County all of the following:

- 43 -

IAFF 3333

     

a. Complete statement of the grievance and the facts upon  which it is based,

b. The section or sections of this agreement claim to  have been violated, and

      

c. The remedy or correction requested. 

6. If a County response is not provided within the stated time  limits, the grievance shall be

deemed to be denied and may proceed to the next step. 

G. 

Grievance Form.

- 44 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 28 

PERFORMANCE REVIEW

The Union understands that employees may be evaluated by their immediate supervisors

and reviewed at higher levels. 

An employee receiving a performance evaluation may attach any comments that they

desire to the evaluation form.

Only formal disciplinary action (issuance of a BC-111) as a result of a performance

evaluation may be grieved in accordance with Grievance and Arbitration Procedure Article of this

agreement.

- 45 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 29

VEHICLE ACCIDENTS/INJURIES

A.

The parties agree that the Joint Occupational Safety and Health (J.O.S.H.) Committee

will be responsible to investigate and review County Vehicular Accidents and injuries

involving bargaining unit members to determine whether such accidents and injuries

are preventable.  This Committee must review (if available) both the employee's and

the supervisor's written account of the accident or injury prior to rendering a decision.

B. 

The employee shall be notified and be entitled to appear before the J.O.S.H.

Committee to present his/her case regarding the accident/injury.

C.

The decision of preventability by the J.O.S.H. Committee shall not be subject to the

grievance procedure.  Disciplinary actions arising out of vehicular accidents/ injuries

such as suspensions or BC-lll's, shall be in accordance with County Policy.  Such

disciplinary action due to vehicular accidents shall be subject to the grievance

procedure as set forth in this Agreement.

- 46  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 30

SENIORITY

A.

TYPES OF SENIORITY

1.  

County hire date: For the purposes of this agreement, the employee's county hire

date shall be deemed to begin on the actual most recent date of continuous full

time paid employment with Broward County.

2.  

Bargaining unit seniority: For the purposes of this agreement, all bargaining unit

members seniority shall be defined to be the length of continuous uninterrupted

service in the Broward County Fire Rescue Division (BCFRD), including any

documented  paid  uninterrupted  service  as  Firefighters  of  the  abolished  Fire

Control  Sub-District,  the  Oakland  Park  Fire  Department,  B.C.A.R.  F.F.,  or

employees  of  B.C.  Fire  Central  prior  to  the  signing  of  the  labor  agreement,

effective on May 20, 1996.

3.  

Time in Classification: time in classification seniority is determined by the most

recent date of Promotion.  F.F., P.M. or FF/PM seniority is determined by the

employee's  actual  date  of  hire  as  determined  by  Paragraph  A,  Section  2,

Bargaining Unit Seniority.

B.

SENIORITY LIST

1.  

The County shall maintain the official seniority list (fire/rescue) of unit members on

to one list for total bargaining unit seniority list, as defined in Paragraph A, Section

2, and will provide the Union President with a copy of the list within a reasonable

period following a request.

- 47  -

IAFF 3333

A.   For bargaining unit members with the same hire date, seniority shall be

determined by the last two (2) digits of the employee's Social Security Number,

00-99, zero (00) being the first and ninety nine (99) being the last.  If the last two

digits are the same, the next digit to the left shall be used, etc.

2.

The  County  shall  maintain  one  (1)  seniority  list  of  combined  bargaining  unit

members by time in classification and one (1) list by time in classification by shift

(A,B,C, Alt Duty, and Days) as defined in Paragraph A, Section 3, and will provide

the Union President with a copy of the list within a reasonable period, following a

request.

A.  Bargaining unit members with the same promotional date, time in classification

seniority will be determined by the employee's bargaining unit seniority date.

Should this date be the same, the seniority shall be determined by the last two (2)

digits of the employee's Social Security Number, 00-99, zero zero (00) being first

and ninety nine (99) being last.  If the last two digits are the same, the next digit to

the left shall be used etc.

C.

USES OF SENIORITY

1.

"Bargaining Unit Seniority" within each rank shall be used for the purposes of

selecting Annual Leave (see annual leave article).

2.

Seniority by "time in classification" shall be used for the purposes of the filling

vacancies at work locations, station bidding/assignments, service level reductions

(layoffs), recall from layoff.

A.  Transfers

- 48  -

IAFF 3333

B.  Station Bidding/assignment

C.  Layoff: 

1) In the event of a layoff, the most junior member of the bargaining unit shall be laid off

first.  In the case of layoff in any rank/classification, the employee with the least time in

classification shall be laid off first, but shall be allowed to "bump" junior employees in

lower ranks/classifications. All seniority accumulated at the higher rank/classification shall

be counted as time in classification seniority in the lower rank/ classification.  Two (2)

weeks notice or pay in lieu thereof shall be given to each member of the bargaining unit

to be laid off.

D.  Recall will be in reverse order of layoff.

    1.  No new bargaining unit employee will be hired by the Broward County Fire Rescue

Division until all laid off members are offered recall or the recall list is expired.  A recall

list in order of layoff/seniority will be maintained by the County.  In the event an entry level

bargaining unit position becomes available, and a recall list currently exits, the County

will recall the most senior, qualified employee on the list.

    2. Employees to be offered recall shall be informed of the  County's offer for re-

employment in the form of written notice.  This notice shall be mailed via registered

receipt  requested,  to  the  last  known  address  of  the  employee  as  shown  on  the

employer's record, and is considered received by the employee when said receipt is

returned.  Within ten (10) working days after an employee receives notice (as defined

above) of the County offer for re-employment, she/he must advise the County in writing

that she/he accepts re-employment and will be able to commence work on the date

specified or a date mutually agreed upon.

- 49  -

IAFF 3333

    3.  Any and all re-employment rights granted to an employee shall terminate upon such

employee's failure to accept the offered position within the allotted time or failure to

respond to the County's recall notice.  The recall list shall be the preferential hiring list

for employees affected by a layoff.  The recall list shall remain in effect for a period of

two (2) years and may be extended at the discretion of the Human Resources Division

Director.

   4.  An employee's accumulated seniority as of the date of layoff shall be retained while

on the recall list but shall not be accumulated during such period.  

E.  Service shall not be deemed to be interrupted by any paid leave, or any leave without

pay of thirty (30) days or less, approved and granted pursuant to the Agreement.  During

any approved leave without pay in excess of thirty (30) days, no seniority shall be

accumulated during the entire period of such leave, but previously earned seniority shall

be retained. 

- 50  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 31 

TEMPORARY PAY UPGRADING

A.

B.

The County agrees to make reasonable efforts to minimize the utilization of employees

working out of their classification.

For all hours worked in a higher classification employees temporarily assigned to work

in a higher classification shall be paid at a rate which is 7.5% above the employee's

current rate.  

C.

The  Fire  Rescue  Division  shall  determine  the  average  number  of  upgrades  per

classification per shift and select upgrades through the use of a promotional/eligibility list.

- 51  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 32 

HOURS OF WORK

A.

The average annual weekly hours of work for unit employees shall be forty-eight (48)

hours per work week.  

B. 

C. 

The computation for pay purposes shall be based on 2,496 hours per year.

The Division will determine the number and location of Kelly Day assignments. The

County will designate all Kelly Day assignments and reassignments by bargaining unit

seniority annually prior to annual leave bids.

D.

The starting time for employees assigned to a twenty-four (24) hour shift schedule shall

be 08:00 and will remain in effect unless amended by mutual agreement of both

parties.

E.

Bargaining unit employees assigned to a forty (40) hour work week schedule may be

assigned to work various schedules (i.e., five (5) eight (8) hour days per week or four

(4) ten (10) hour days per week).  The Fire Rescue Division shall establish these work

schedules at the discretion of the Division Director and only after consulting with the

Union President.  A change to an employee’s work schedule may occur so long as the

employee has received at least seven (7) calendar days notice prior to the proposed

change and these schedule changes are not used in a punitive or discriminatory

fashion.

F.

Special and peak-hour assignments may be exceptions to the standard tour of duty

and the County will strive to staff such assignments first with volunteers and then with

qualified probationary employees in the needed classification. Should the number of

volunteers and probationary employees be insufficient to meet the staffing

- 52 -

IAFF 3333

requirements of such assignments, the least senior qualified employees in the needed

classification may be involuntarily reassigned.

G.

An employee who is transferred from one shift or assignment to another will receive

notification of transfer no later than seven (7) calendar days prior to the effective date

of transfer.  In emergency situations declared by the Director of designee, any

necessary transfers will be made first from probationary employees not assigned to

training, and then from the least senior employees in the affected classification.

H.

When bargaining unit employees are reassigned from a forty (40) hour, forty-two (42)

hour, or forty-eight (48) hour schedule, sick leave and annual leave accruals, including

the rate and current balance, shall be adjusted as specified in the Annual Leave Article

and the Sick Leave Article of this Agreement.

I.

Employees covered by this Agreement who are requested to and who return to duty at

times other than their regular schedules, except for shift exchange and time pool

replacements, shall be credited with a minimum of four (4) hours, at the employees

regular rate of pay.

J.

Beginning with the call from the Fire Rescue Division to return to off duty work together

with hours actually worked shall constitute the maximum hours worked, during call

back, for pay purposes.

- 53 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 33

OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT

A. 

Outside employment is any paid employment performed by an employee in addition to

his/her employment by the County.  Any member of the Bargaining Unit who desires to

perform outside employment shall first file a request in writing with the Director of the 

Fire Rescue Division.  The employee shall notify the County of the type of employment,

the hours of work, the name of the prospective employer, and the location where

he/she is to be employed.  The Director may recommend approval or disapproval of

the request.  If the Director disapproves the request, the employee shall be notified in

writing with an explanation for the disapproval.  If the Director recommends approval,

the request may be granted by the  Director of Human Resources if the criteria

outlined in the section below are met.

B. 

Outside employment may not be approved unless the following criteria are met:

1.  Such employment shall not interfere with the efficient performance of the

employee's duties;

2.  Such employment shall not involve a conflict of interest or conflict with the

employee's duties as determined by applicable laws and regulations or the

appearance of conflict as determined by the County; 

3.  Such employment shall not involve the performance of duties which the employee

should perform as part of his/her employment with the County; (excluding approved

instructional employment, e.g., Broward Fire Academy or BCC).

4.  Such employment shall not occur during the employee's regular or assigned

working hours;

- 54 -

IAFF 3333

5.  Any employee accepting outside employment under the terms of this rule shall

make arrangements with the outside employer to be relieved from his/her outside

duties if and when called for bona fide emergency by the County.

C.

The County retains the right to revoke its permission to engage in outside employment

whenever an employee ceases to perform his/her duties in a manner which meets the

standards of the  Fire Rescue Division.  The employee shall receive thirty (30) days

notice of such revocation with explanation of such revocation in writing.

D.

Any employee who obtains new unauthorized outside employment while on authorized

leave of absence without pay automatically forfeits his or her position with the County.

E. 

Volunteer fire fighting shall be considered outside employment and subject to the

provisions of this Article.

F.

The County and the Union recognize that the nature of Fire/Rescue service involves

certain inherent risks to the health, safety, and  well being of the employees of the

Broward County Fire Rescue Division.  The County and Union agree that no

employees of the bargaining unit may serve as a paid or non-paid member of any

other county, municipal or private agency providing emergency Fire/Rescue services

and/or emergency rescue/ambulance service.  This includes any non-emergency

rescue/ambulance service not directly provided by the Broward County Fire Rescue

Division.

- 55 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 34

PROFESSIONAL STATUS

A. 

It is agreed upon by the County and by the Union that all paid Unit employees of the 

Fire Rescue Division be classified as Professional Paramedics and Firefighters and

are not subject to mandatory classification as a volunteer.

B. 

No off duty member of the Bargaining Unit shall operate at Emergency Incidents

unless specifically called to duty as specified in this Agreement.

C. 

No member of the bargaining unit shall be required to train employees of any private

fire protection services provider and/or private rescue/ambulance service with which

the County could contract.

D.

No unit member shall be required to operate as a volunteer of any fire

department/rescue squad or any volunteer fire department/volunteer rescue squad.

- 56 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 35

QUARTERS

A. 

The County agrees to provide and maintain station quarters and furnishings in

accordance with Division Operational Procedures Manual.  The County reserves the

right to continuously upgrade the provisions of the Operating Procedures Manual

relating to station quarters and furnishings.  Should the Division Director, or his/her

designee, determine that a serious safety and health hazard exists in any station

quarters/equipment, the Division Director or his/her designee may make temporary

arrangements (e.g. relocation) in order to alleviate such hazards and/or properly

correct same.  The determination of whether serious safety and health hazards exist,

as well as what temporary arrangements, if any, are appropriate, shall remain with the

Division Director or his/her designee.

B. 

The employer agrees to furnish suitable space for the Union to erect a bulletin board in

the Fire Stations, Fire Prevention Branch and Training Branch to be used by the

Union.  Only authorized Union Representatives will post or take down articles.  Such

articles shall be related to official union business and activities.

C.

Each Fire Station, Fire Prevention Branch and Training Branch of the Division shall

have a complete Operations Procedures Manual and it will be available for inspection

by station personnel who shall be responsible for the knowledge of its contents. 

Employees disciplined as a result of failure to adhere to the rules and regulations in

the Operations Procedures Manual shall have the provisions in the Grievance and

Arbitration Procedure Article available to them.

- 57 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 36

PARKING

Station area premises may be used by personnel, while on duty, to park personally

owned motor vehicles as determined by the Division Director.

- 58 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 37 

UNIFORMS

During the term of this Agreement the County agrees to provide and replace the

following issue of uniforms at no cost to the employee.  It is the County's intent to

immediately provide to each employee at the time of hiring or promotion the uniforms,

accessories or protective clothing listed in this Article.  However, should such uniforms,

accessories or protective clothing may not be in stock at the time of hiring or promotion,

the Division shall immediately process the appropriate paperwork necessary to obtain

such items.  The Union shall have input in recommending standards and dress codes for

the items provided in this Article.

A.

Uniforms shall include at a minimum the following:

As recommended by the Uniform Committee working in conjunction with the JOSH
Committee:

a.  5 Working Uniforms
b.  1 Work Jacket
c.  1 Dress Uniform
d.  2 Jumpsuits
e.  1 pair Black Uniform Shoes
f.   1 set Rain Gear
g.  Officer’s collar brass will be by utilization of the bugle rank system
h.  Designated badges will be silver or gold for the appropriate rank (Officer’s gold        
 badge and collar brass

Combat Uniform shall include at a minimum the following:

(NFPA/OSHA Approved equipment) as recommended by the JOSH  Committee

a.  1 Fire Fighting Helmet
b.  1 Complete set of Turnout Gear
c.  1 SCBA Personal face piece
d.  1 Personal Flashlight
e.  1 Personal Stethoscope

- 59 -

IAFF 3333

f.   1 Appropriate Safety Strap
g.  2 pair of work gloves

B.

The replacement of the above listed uniforms will be on an as needed basis as

determined by the immediate supervisor (Battalion Chief or above). It is the County's

intent to immediately replace the item submitted for replacement after the item has

been turned in.  However, should the item in question not be in stock at the time the

item is turned in, the Division shall immediately process the appropriate paperwork

necessary to obtain such item and without delay provide an equivalent temporary

replacement for any and all safety equipment.  Replacements will be made in the field

by appropriate personnel.  Replacements shall be at no cost to the employee provided

the employee follows appropriate procedures and was not negligent.

- 60 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 38

ANNUAL LEAVE

A. 

Full time employees who are members of the Bargaining Unit and who have

successfully completed their initial hiring probationary period are eligible to take

accrued annual leave.  Emergency annual leave, if accrued, may be granted to

probationary employees by the  Fire Rescue Division Director or his/her designee. 

Annual leave shall be accrued with reference to years of continuous service and is

earned as of an employee's most recent date of employment.  Leaves of absence

without pay, will not be included in the computation or accrual of annual leave.

B. 

Annual leave shall be earned based upon County service, as follows:

Length of Service

40 HR Schedule

42 HR Schedule

48 HR Schedule

Less than five years 

   80 hours

   100.8 hours

   115.2 hours 

Five years, but less than 15

   120 hours

   151.1 hours

   172.8 hours

years

15 years or more

   160 hours

   201.6 hours

  230.4 hours

 

C. 

If a holiday occurs while a member of the Bargaining Unit is on annual leave, that

person shall receive 10% of their scheduled pay period hours as holiday bonus if

assigned to 24/48 hour work schedule.  An employee assigned to any eight (8) hour

work schedule shall be compensated at one fifth of his/her basic weekly salary for the

holiday in lieu of annual leave.

D.

Vacations are recognized to be intended for the purpose of rejuvenating both physical

and mental faculties, and all unit members are urged to take advantage of this benefit

- 61 -

IAFF 3333

on a yearly basis.  Accordingly, the maximum of unused annual leave that may be

carried over from one calendar year to the next shall not exceed a total of three

hundred and sixty (360) hours.  The date for computation of excess leave for each year

will be the end of the last pay period which begins in that calendar year. 

E. 

Annual leaves are scheduled by the Division Director or his/her designee, who shall

approve requests as described below on the basis of seniority and the operational

needs of the Division. Leave requests must be submitted for approval between August

1 and October 1 for leaves during the period beginning November 1 of the current year

and ending October 31 of the following year.  Any leave request submitted at other

times of the year shall be on a first come first serve basis and will be approved or

denied solely with reference to operational needs.  Employees submitting leave

requests at the proper time may designate a second choice of dates.  Annual leave

may be requested or granted in full or half shifts and not in portions thereof (other than

leave pool utilizations and approved emergency leaves).  The parties will negotiate a

bid procedure prior to August 1, 1998.

F. 

G. 

An employee who exhausts his/her sick leave may utilize emergency annual leave to

cover a continuing absence due to injury/illness.

Any member of the bargaining unit who is separated in good standing from service

with the County, shall be compensated for all unused accrued annual leave at the

employee's basic rate of pay at the time of separation.

H. 

Members of the Union may donate up to two (2) shifts, forty-eight (48) hours, per year

of annual leave to a paid union time pool to be used by members of the Union. 

Authorization from the employee must be submitted in writing before such donation is

- 62 -

IAFF 3333

effected.  The Union President or his/her designee shall notify the  Fire Rescue

Division of its desire to allocate leave from this pool to any employee.  Union time pool

hours will be used on an hour for hour basis or time and one-half if the time used

requires the use of overtime.  Under normal circumstances pool utilization will include

the reasonable notice of forty-eight (48) hours.  Utilization of the Union time pool will be

for employment related activities and benefits including Union business as determined

by the Union and shall be with the approval of the Union President or his/her

designated representative.

I.

Subject to the limitations of this agreement, an employee with excess annual leave

may opt to donate up to 48 hours of such excess leave to the Union time pool on a

one-time basis.

- 63  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 39

SICK LEAVE

A. 

Members of the bargaining unit scheduled to work 24-hour shifts shall accrue sick

leave at the rate of 9.6 hours per month.  Employees assigned a normal 40-hour

workweek will accrue at the rate of 8 hours per month.  Part-time employees shall

accrue a proportionate amount, based on hours worked.  No new employee is eligible

to utilize sick leave until three (3) months after his/her date of employment with the  Fire

Rescue Division, at which time he/she will be credited with earned sick leave hours.

B. 

Sick leave may be granted for the following purposes:

1.  Personal illness or injury not connected with work;

2.  Personal medical, dental, or optical appointments, examination, or treatment which

is necessary during working hours;

3.  Exposure to a contagious disease which would endanger others;

4.  Pregnancy and maternity leave; and

5.  Family Illness Leave, under the same provisions and guidelines as non-

represented employees, except that the maximum number of  sick leave hours used

for Family Illness Leave shall not exceed 48 hours in a calendar year for employees on

a 24/48 hour work schedule 42 hours in a calendar year for employees on a 42 hour

work schedule, and  40 hours in a calendar year for employees on a 40 hour work

schedule.

- 64  -

IAFF 3333

C. 

An employee who is absent for an entire shift due to illness will be debited twenty-four

(24) hours sick leave.   An employee who becomes ill during a shift and must be

replaced will be debited the number of hours remaining in the shift after he/she is

relieved from duty.  An employee thus relieved from duty due to illness will,

nevertheless, be paid for the hours worked before he/she was relieved at his/her

regular rate of pay or overtime rate of pay, whichever is applicable.

D. 

All members of the bargaining unit shall continue to be allowed to accrue an unlimited

amount of sick leave.  The maximum of unused sick leave that may be carried over

from one calendar year to the next shall not exceed a total of sixty (60) shifts (1,440

hours) for purposes of payment as described in Section E below.  The date for

computation of excess sick leave for each year will be the end of the last pay period

which began in that calendar year.

E.  When a bargaining unit member resigns (or is terminated) from County employment

he/she shall be paid twenty-five percent (25%) of their accumulated sick leave accrual

as of the effective date of separation.  An employee who attains the required number

of years of service and otherwise is eligible for retirement under the Florida State

Retirement System shall receive fifty percent (50%) of his/her accrued sick leave as of

the effective date of the retirement.

F.  

A medical certificate, including diagnosis and prognosis, signed by a licensed Florida

physician, may be required by an employee's division/office head to substantiate a

request for sick leave when:

1.  After four (4) occurrences in any continuing twelve (12) month period (an

occurrence means a separate unconnected illness/injury of a full shift or more), the

- 65  -

IAFF 3333

employee shall present a doctor's excuse for the next occurrence;

2.  If a supervisor suspects abuse of sick leave because of unusual circumstances or a

developing pattern, (e.g., frequent sick leave usage of less than one shift in a

continuing twelve (12) month period, employee denied annual leave and subsequently

claims illness, etc.), the Chief may inform the employee that a doctor's excuse will be

required in order to "approve" any further use of sick leave.

3.  The illness occurred while the employee was on vacation leave and a request is

made to credit sick leave instead of vacation.

4.  If absence from duty due to illness occurs in conjunction with a Kelly Day and the

employee has been notified or warned that a certificate will be required should future

illness occur in conjunction with a Kelly Day.

Any employee who is absent from work due to illness for a period of five (5)

consecutive shifts or more must obtain a medical certificate, including diagnosis and

prognosis, signed by a licensed physician prior to being allowed to return to work.  The

medical certificate required hereunder may be waived at the discretion of the  Fire

Rescue Director.  Should it be discovered that the employee is taking sick leave under

false pretenses, the time off shall be without pay.  The employee may also be subject

to disciplinary action. 

G.

1.   Any field assigned employee who will not be able to report for an assigned shift

because of illness must call the designated contact person/point on duty as soon as

possible, but in any event prior to  0630 hours, and give him/her the necessary

information to fill in a sick leave form.  Failure to timely notify the Division shall result in

a loss of pay and may result in disciplinary action.

- 66  -

IAFF 3333

2.  Should a field  assigned employee who calls in sick in compliance with section G-l

of this Article request and be able to report to duty later in the same shift, that

employee may report to duty at  2000 hours provided he/she calls in to the designated

contact person/point no later than  1830 hours.  Failure to make such contact by 1830

hours will eliminate the  field assigned employee's option to report to duty during that

shift.   Established late report/AWOL procedures will apply to the  2000 hour report

time on the same basis as for the 0800 hour report time.

H.

Any employee utilizing sick leave either immediately before or after vacation must

comply with Section G of this Article and must submit a medical certificate in

accordance with Section F. 

I. 

Sick leave in excess of that accumulated by an employee shall not be granted.  If an

illness extends beyond the period of time covered by his/her accrued sick leave

credits, annual leave credits or union time pool must be applied to the extent needed

or available.  Days lost due to illness or injury after exhaustion of all accumulated sick

and annual leave shall be charged to leave without pay.  Such unpaid sick leave may

not exceed three (3) months without approval of the Administration.

J. 

Full-time employees, after completing their probationary period, will be entitled to earn

one paid shift off for any six months thereafter that they do not use any sick leave.  The

time shall be used in the six month period following the period in which it is earned.

K. 

Employees covered by this agreement may participate in the County's Sick Leave

Donation Program subject to the same guidelines and eligibility requirements as

non-represented employees.

L.

Employees which have 500 or more hours of accrued Sick Leave as of January 1 of

- 67  -

IAFF 3333

each year may elect to convert up to 96 hours of Sick Leave into 48 hours of Annual

Leave once each calendar year in accordance with County procedures.

- 68  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 40

HOLIDAYS

A. 

The following days are herewith designated as holidays, to be computed on the actual

holiday date:

New Year's Day

Martin Luther King Day

Memorial Day

Independence Day              

Labor Day

Veteran's Day

Thanksgiving Day

Friday after Thanksgiving

Christmas Day

Two (2) Personal Days

Other days designated as holidays by the Board of County Commissioners for all

other non-represented employees shall also be observed as a holiday under this

Article.

B.

Members of the bargaining unit who work on a designated holiday shall receive one

and one-half (1 ½ ) times their regular rate of pay for actual hours worked plus 9.6

hours holiday bonus.  Time and one-half pay (premium pay) shall be prorated: that is,

the employee who finishes a shift on a designated holiday shall receive premium pay

for the actual hours worked between 12:00 midnight and 8:00 A.M.  The employee

- 69  -

IAFF 3333

who begins a shift on a designated holiday shall receive premium pay for the actual

hours worked between 8:00  a.m. and 12:00 midnight.  Members of the bargaining unit

on 42 or 48 hour workweeks who do not work on a designated holiday shall receive

9.6 hours holiday bonus.  All bargaining unit employees on a 40 hour work week shall

receive 9.6 hours of holiday bonus in addition to their regular 40 hour rate in lieu of

field overtime eligibility.

C. 

An employee who is not on approved leave and fails to work his/her scheduled shift(s)

occurring on the calendar day of a holiday forfeits the holiday bonus for that holiday. 

Sick leave shall not constitute approved leave for purposes of this Article.

D. 

An employee working mandatory overtime on a holiday shall be compensated at the

rate of double time plus the holiday bonus.

E. 

There may be additional days on which County offices are closed due to special

emergency circumstances which may occur from time to time.  Employees who work

these days will be paid in accordance with the policy determined by the County

Commission for that day for regular County employees.

- 70  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 41

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

A.

Funeral leave of one (1) twenty-four (24) hour shift with pay will be granted for absence

from duty of an employee in the event of death in his/her immediate family, within the

State of Florida, or two (2) twenty-four (24) hour shifts if outside the State of Florida.

B. 

Funeral leave of three (3) working days with pay will be granted for absence from duty

of an employee working a forty (40) hour or forty-two (42) week in the event of death in

his/her immediate family within the State of Florida, or five (5) working days if outside

the State of Florida.

C. 

If an employee needs to be absent in excess of authorized time, an automatic shift

exchange will be granted upon notification to the County, or an employee may charge

up to an additional two (2) shifts to annual leave (if accrued), or to leave without pay if

the employee has no annual leave accumulated, or to the annual leave pool if

approved by the Union in accordance with the Annual Leave Article .

D. 

The employee's immediate family shall be defined as the employee's current spouse,

father, mother, child, brother, sister, stepparent, stepchild, stepbrother, stepsister,

grandparents, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law,

daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, and sister-in-law, registered domestic partner, or any

relative who is domiciled in the employee's household.  In the event of the death of an

individual not a relative domiciled in the employee's household, the employee may be

granted up to two (2) shifts of emergency annual leave, if accrued, or leave without pay

if the employee has no annual leave accumulated.

- 71  -

IAFF 3333

E. 

The employee shall provide upon request the division/office head with sufficient proof

of a death in his/her family before compensation is approved and paid.  

- 72  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 42

DISABILITY LEAVE

A.

Bargaining Unit members who are disabled because of an injury arising out of, and in

the course of their employment with the County, will receive supplemental payments

from the County, which when added to Worker's Compensation payments would

equal their full pay for a specified period of time without charge against annual or sick

leave.  The disability must be of an immediate incapacitating nature, not one which

occurred at some time in the past.  If an injury occurs as a result of the employee's

failure to comply with established safety rules and procedures, or failure to use

provided personal protective safety equipment, he/she may be denied supplemental

disability pay.  The County will follow the provisions of applicable Florida Statutes in

the determination of on-the-job injury. (i.e., FS 112.18, FS 440).

B.

If at any time Worker's Compensation benefits are discontinued or suspended under

the provisions of the Florida Worker's Compensation Act, disability leave and any

County supplemental payments made pursuant thereto shall be discontinued.

C. 

In order for an employee on disability leave to remain eligible for supplemental

payments, he/she must contact the office of  Fire Rescue Division at least once each

work week while the employee is on disability leave in order to report as to his/her

medical condition and prognosis.

D.

If an employee is unable to perform his/her regularly assigned duties as a result of an

injury, but is still able to perform some type of work, the employee may be assigned

by the Division other work or duties in the Division during the period of his/her

- 73  -

IAFF 3333

recuperation.  Any employee physically able but unwilling to accept such an

assignment shall be ineligible for disability leave and shall not receive any

supplemental payments from the County.

E.

Management may order any employee on disability leave to be examined by a

physician who is selected and approved by the  Division of Human Resources.  If the

employee refuses to be examined, then that employee shall be immediately removed

from disability leave and shall be ineligible to receive any supplemental payments

from the County.

F.

Disability leave and any supplemental payments authorized as a result of such leave

shall not exceed thirteen (13) workweeks for one (1) acute injury or multiple injuries

occurring in one (1) accident mishap in the line of duty including training or eight (8)

workweeks for any one (1) incidental injury or multiple incidental injuries occurring in

one (1) accident or mishap (i.e., at the station).  If an employee is unable to return to

work at the end of the thirteen (13) or eight (8) workweek period, such employee shall

be considered as automatically placed on a leave of absence without pay.  However,

a Division or Department Head may petition the Division of Human Resources to

continue an employee on disability leave with supplemental payments for an

additional period of time not to exceed thirteen (13) workweeks for acute injury or

accident in the line of duty including training, or  eight (8) workweeks for incidental

injury or accident (i.e., at the station), provided that sufficient grounds are given by the

Director or Department Head and the extension is approved by the County

Administrator.  This provision shall not entitle any employee as a matter or right to an

extension of disability leave, but shall not preclude any employee from filing a

- 74  -

IAFF 3333

grievance concerning this section.

G.

An employee who has exhausted his/her disability leave and is placed on a leave of

absence without pay shall be entitled to re-employment in the first available position

for which he/she is qualified and which is similar in pay unless the pay requirement is

waived by the returning employee.  This provision shall only grant to a returning

employee the right to re-employment with Broward County on a priority basis when a

position is available in the County service.  This right will exist for one (1) year from

the time when the employee goes on leave of absence without pay.

All Florida Statutes relating to Firefighter Disability, (i.e., Heart Lung Bill) when

applicable, shall apply to unit employees.

In the event increases in disability benefits are made available to the general County

employees, said benefits will also be made available, on the same terms, to those

employees covered by the scope of this Agreement.

H.

I. 

- 75  -

IAFF 3333

  

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

F.

G.

ARTICLE 43

             SHIFT EXCHANGE            

Shift exchanges are permitted for non-probationary employees with prior written

approval of the employee's Battalion Chief following written request of at least forty-

eight (48) hours advanced notice.  Prior written approval and the 48 hour notification

may be waived by the Battalion Chief.

Shift exchanges shall be rank/classification for rank/classification or with employees

who have been previously upgraded for that rank/ classification.

Any employee on duty by virtue of a shift exchange or partial shift exchange shall be

entitled to the same benefits, privileges, and protections and shall assume the same

responsibilities as any on-duty personnel. 

A replacement who leaves work early because of illness shall have the sick leave

deducted from his/her bank and not from the bank accrued by the employee originally

assigned to the shift.  Under other circumstances, payroll computations will not be

affected by shift exchanges or partial shift exchanges. 

A shift exchange constitutes an even exchange and neither party becomes eligible for

overtime pay because of a shift exchange.

Shift exchanges may not be taken in order to engage in outside employment. This

provision may be waived at the discretion of the Division Director.

An employee who abuses this Article shall be subject to the loss of the right to

exchange shifts for the period of one (1) year. Any member of the bargaining unit who

agrees to exchange a shift, but fails to report to work the agreed shift, shall be subject

- 76  -

IAFF 3333

to disciplinary action. Members of the bargaining unit are encouraged to police the

practice themselves with the operational needs of the County, as well as the practical

needs of their teammates in mind.  Any member of the bargaining unit who agrees to

exchange a shift, but fails to report to work the agreed shift due to illness will first have

the equivalent number of hours missed deducted from his/her sick leave accrual, and if

such accrual balance is insufficient to cover the number of hours used, then the

member will have his/her salary deducted accordingly.

 

- 77  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 44 

INSURANCE

A.

The County agrees to provide at no cost to the employee, insurance coverage, relating

to health, life, accident and Worker's Compensation on the same terms and conditions

provided other non-represented County employees.  Bargaining unit employees and

their dependents will be eligible to participate in a certified H.M.O. option on the same

terms and conditions as non-represented County employees.

The County agrees to provide optional dental plan coverage for employees and their

dependents.

Bargaining unit employees will be eligible to participate in any optional long-term

disability plan which is in effect for non-represented County employees during the term

of this agreement.

B.

C.

D.

During the term of this agreement, all employees in the bargaining unit shall be

covered by the Florida State Retirement System or the appropriate Municipal Pension

Fund (i.e. City of Oakland Park).

E.

All Fire Rescue Division employees that are members of the Union may elect to

participate in the Union’s group insurance program.  Employees opting to participate

in the Union plan shall continue to receive the same amount of County FLEX dollars as

non-represented employees.  If the flexible dollar allowance is increased for all the

other County bargaining units, the increase will also apply to employees covered by

this Agreement.

- 78  -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 45 

HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SPECIAL INCIDENT RESPONSE TEAM

MEDICAL SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM

1.

The County shall appoint a physician as the Fire Rescue Division Physician who is

responsible for the implementation, monitoring, and assessment of a comprehensive

medical surveillance program.  This program shall be designed to conform with all

laws, rules, regulations, provisions, and requirements specifically pertaining to

personnel assigned to the Hazardous Materials Special Incident Response Team.

2.

The County and the Union agree to jointly develop the specifications for qualification

and selection of physician(s) to conduct the Medical Surveillance Program.  All

medical examinations for employees assigned to the Hazardous Materials Special

Incident Response Team shall be performed by the Fire Rescue Division

Physician(s).  Medical facilities/physicians performing the examinations may only be

changed by mutual consent of both parties.  At a minimum all physicians utilized shall

be qualified in occupational medicine and should be Board Certified.

The Occupational and Safety Health Guidance Manual for Hazardous Waste Site

Activities shall guide medical examinations of bargaining unit employees assigned to

the Hazardous Materials Special Incident Response Team.

All medical examinations shall be conducted while on duty.

A revised medical examination form will be developed and used for reporting and

findings when fire rescue members are examined pursuant to the collective

bargaining agreement and Florida Law.  The form will specifically state the following

- 79 -

IAFF 3333

3.

4.

5.

precaution in Physician’s Comments section: Do Not disclose or mention specific

diagnosis, test results or medical conditions.  Both parties shall sign-off on the

revised form prior to implementation.  Once implemented the form shall become a

part of this Agreement and noted as such in the Appendix.  Changes to the form may

only be made by mutual consent of the parties.

6.

The Fire Rescue Division Physician will maintain all records, forms, and data

pertaining to the medical surveillance program.  No member of the Fire Rescue

Division, other than the Fire Rescue Division Physician(s) shall have access to

information obtained through the medical surveillance program.  All information

shall remain personal and confidential unless otherwise authorized by the

employee.  The only information initially available to the Fire Rescue Division/Risk

Management Division (Occupational Health Nurse) will be whether or not employees

are qualified or not qualified for duty.  The Fire Rescue Division/Risk

Management Division shall only be entitled to additional information after a

Worker’s Compensation claim has been filed. If the medical examination is

specifically related to a Hazardous Materials Special Incident Response Team

Assignment, the only information provided to the Fire Rescue Division will be whether

or not employees are qualified or not qualified for that specific special assignment.

7.

Employees who are determined to be not qualified may be deemed by the Fire

Rescue Division Physician to have suffered the injury/illness as a result of their

assignment to the Hazardous Materials Special Incident Response Team and shall

receive coverage under Worker’s Compensation.  The employee shall initiate the

Worker’s Compensation claim.  Employees may be temporarily reassigned to a light

- 80 -

IAFF 3333

duty position and permitted to work with the Fire Rescue Division Physician to

resolve the underlying medical condition.  The decision to place an employee on light

duty shall be at the sole discretion of the Fire Rescue Division Physician, and this

decision to assign an employee to light duty shall be based on the employee’s ability

to perform the assigned tasks.  A temporary assignment shall be determined by the

Fire Rescue Division Physician and based on the employee’s ability to perform the

assigned tasks.

8.

If the Fire Rescue Division Physician finds an employee not qualified, the employee

has the right to be examined by another physician of their choice at the employee’s

expense.  Should the findings between the Fire Rescue Division Physician and the

employee’s physician conflict, a third and independent physician will make the final

and binding determination.  The Fire Rescue Division Physician and the employee’s

physician shall jointly select and appoint this third independent physician at the

County’s expense.

9.

10.

Employees assigned to light duty for up to 120 days shall not lose the Hazardous

Materials Special Incident Response Team assignment pay.

Upon clearance from the Fire Rescue Division Physician the employee shall be

returned to duty at their Special Duty assignment or reassigned to a Regular Duty

assignment.

11.

The County agrees that the following definition shall be utilized as the definition of

permanent disability: The inability to perform effective or efficient service as a fire

fighter or paramedic.

12.

In the case where an employee is unable to resolve the underlying medical condition,

- 81 -

IAFF 3333

the County shall:

a.  Reassign the employee to another position within the Fire Rescue Division

without a reduction in base pay and shall attempt to maintain all benefits or,

b.  Reassign the employee to another position within County Government without a

reduction in base pay and shall attempt to maintain all benefits or,

c.  Place the employee on permanent disability.  Employees determined to be

permanently disabled shall be entitled to receive disability benefits in conjunction with

the Disability Plan so long as the employee remains permanently disabled.

13.

The County agrees to contribute to the employee an amount equal to the cost of a

Long-Term Disability plan for all employees assigned to the Hazardous Materials

Special Incident Response Team.  At a minimum the plan shall include:

Benefits equal to the County’s Long Term Disability plan effective 01/01/98.

14.

Make whole provision:

Employees who are assigned to another position in the Regular Class of the Florida

Retirement System shall receive an eleven percent (11%) pay increase in lieu of

Special Risk Class retirement.

15.

Any employee resigning or voluntarily leaving a Hazardous Materials Special Incident

Response Team assignment shall have an exit physical within 60 days.

- 82 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 46

PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATION

A.

l.  Each member of the bargaining unit shall be personally and individually

responsible for maintaining their certification in good standing depending upon their

current classification.  Any employee who allows their certification to expire may be

terminated.

2.  Upon re-certification, any employee discharged due to lack of certification shall

become eligible for preferential hiring upon the first available appropriate vacancy.

B.

The  Fire Rescue Division shall provide the proper applications for individual

paramedic re-certification and necessary funds required for the renewal of the

certification required by State of Florida Department of Health and Emergency

Medical Services Bureau.

C.

The County will provide the necessary personnel and make available the continuing

education credits opportunities needed for re-certification through the Division's

Training   Branch.  This will be at no cost to paramedics except for a nominal charge

for course materials for certain courses (e.g. ACLS). 

D.

The County agrees that where an employee is required by the County to attend

training for job required certification/re-certification and it occurs during his/her

regularly scheduled work hours, the employee shall be excused to attend with full pay

and no loss of benefits.  After such training session the employee shall return to work

if during his/her normally scheduled work hours.

E.

When ACLS re-certification is required to maintain the Paramedic certification, a

- 83 -

IAFF 3333

bargaining unit member will complete the necessary course work and present the re-

certification notice to the Division.  The Division will take the steps necessary to

implement a one-time addition of base pay, at straight time, to the individual’s pay, in

the amount of the hours required by the State.  Further, the County will permit re-

certification class tuition charges to be eligible for reimbursement under the County’s

Tuition Reimbursement Program.

- 84 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 47

EDUCATIONAL REIMBURSEMENT

A.

Employees covered by this Agreement may participate in the County's General

Education Reimbursement Program.  The eligibility requirements and the amount,

type and condition precedent to obtaining reimbursement, will be established by the

County.  Participation in this program is intended to cover undergraduate/graduate

and other course work consistent with the program's guidelines that are not otherwise

covered by the continuing training reimbursement program in Section B below.

B. 

Educational reimbursement for continuing training for bargaining unit employees will

be administered by the Division Director or his/her designee.  The amount of

reimbursement from all sources received for continuing training such as seminars,

skill improvement course, and short study program shall not exceed one hundred

percent (100%).

1.  Written applications requesting reimbursement will be submitted to the

Department Head (through the Division Director) on the division form for review in

order to assure that the course of study is job related, and will increase the

knowledge or assist the production of the employee in his/her work.

2.  The Division Director or his/her designee will review the requests and make a

determination as to which requests are approved, together with the amount of

reimbursement, in accordance with established criteria.

3.  All reimbursements for continuing training will be subject to the amount available in

the Division's Educational Reimbursement Fund, not to be less than $ 24,000 per

- 85 -

IAFF 3333

contract year.

C.

D.

Any off duty member who is required by the County to attend schools, seminars, or

training activities will be compensated at his/her applicable rate of pay.

Members of the Bargaining Unit may receive up to forty-eight (48)hours per year in

multiples of four (4) hours (i.e. 4, 8, 12) with pay each as educational leave to attend

school, conferences or seminars of a job related educational nature, subject to the

approval of the Director.  

- 86 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 48

OVERTIME

A.

In an effort to reduce overtime expenditures and promote a positive working

environment, the County and the Union agree to a joint Labor/Management approach

to overtime. 

B.

C.

Authorized overtime will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1½) times an

employee’s regular rate of pay.

The County has established a twenty-eight (28) day work period for the purpose of

complying with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) for those employees

considered partially exempt under Section 207(k).

D.

Contractual Overtime will be computed on the basis of actual hours worked beyond

an employee’s regularly scheduled shifts (8, 9, 10, 12, 14,  24 hours or other

schedules established consistent with Article 32 - Hours of Work) in a fourteen (14)

day period, beginning Sunday at 0800 and ending Sunday at 0759 of the following

week. An employee who works more hours than his/her scheduled shifts during this

period will be paid overtime for the additional hours worked.  Shifts paid for any

authorized leave shall be computed as hours worked with the exception of sick leave

and any other leaves charged to sick leave for the purpose of calculating overtime.

E.

Members of the bargaining unit who are required and/or assigned by the County to

begin a consecutive work assignment at a different location immediately after being

released from duty on a regularly scheduled assignment will lose no pay because of

the travel between locations, as long as the employee arrives at the second station

- 87 -

IAFF 3333

without delay.  The employee awaiting his/her relief at the second location will be

paid for the additional holdover time at the applicable rate of pay.

F.

In the event that a need for overtime should occur in the Fire Rescue Division

because of scheduled leaves, sickness, or other unforeseen conditions, equal

exposure of overtime - scheduled fairly and equitably - for unit employees, rank for

rank, (except for qualified lieutenants and captains who will be considered company

officers and be permitted to fill either rank for purposes of overtime assignments)

shall be implemented as stated in this Article.

G.

The Fire Rescue Division shall maintain a record of overtime assignments and

attempts to contact employees for overtime assignments.  The Union President (or

designee) shall have the right to review these records at will with reasonable notice,

and supplied copies when needed.

H.

Off duty employees called back to work shall be paid for actual hours worked with a

minimum of four (4) hours. However, if an employee is called back to work and not

needed for the assignment, the employee shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours

and allowed to leave work.  If the employee elects to remain at work, the employee

will be allowed to remain at work four(4) hours and shall be paid for actual hours

worked. The callback minimum shall not apply to holdovers. If the employee is called

back to work due to his/her own failure, the employee shall not be eligible for this

minimum pay. 

I.

The County agrees to begin calling for Mandatory overtime after (3) three hours if

after utilizing the proper procedures every reasonable effort has been made to fill the

vacancy.

- 88 -

IAFF 3333

J.

In the event of a declared emergency or natural disaster, the Division Director (or

designee) may modify or suspend the provisions of this Article for the duration of the

emergency.  This action must be placed in writing  and sent to the Union President

(or designee) within twenty-four (24) hours after the declared emergency or natural

disaster. 

K.

Employees may elect to receive compensatory time in lieu of overtime at the

employee’s discretion.  Compensatory time shall be accrued at the appropriate

overtime rate.  The employee may use such time, based on staffing levels as

determined by the County.  The County has the right to deny such compensatory time

off and pay overtime instead.  Once an employee has accrued one full shift or more

of compensatory time, the accrued compensatory time shall be scheduled to be used

or paid out within ninety (90) days of the date of accrual.  In any case, employees

may not carry accrued compensatory time for more than one year, at which time the

employee will be paid for all accrued compensatory time.

The provisions of this Article shall be the official policy for overtime assignments. 

Overtime will be accomplished in the manner prescribed herein.

Overtime will be scheduled - fairly and equitably - by means of one (1) overtime list. 

This list shall be in order of time in classification seniority, with all employee ranks,

qualifications, and shift assignments listed next to their names (i.e., Fire Fighter /

Paramedic, Air Rescue, Hazardous Materials, Technical Rescue, Communications

Captain, etc.,), except for qualified lieutenants and captains who will be considered

company officers and be permitted to fill either rank for purposes of overtime

assignments.  

- 90 -

IAFF 3333

L.

M.

N.

When an overtime assignment becomes available, the appropriate officer will initiate

the automated system to call for the overtime by the following rules.  If the automated

system is unable to call, these rules will be followed manually by the officer.

1. Beginning with the first name, the officer will attempt to contact the employee listed

on that roster, who has the minimum qualifications of the position needed.  When

subsequent overtime positions are available, the roster will be followed in order,

always starting with the employee with all the needed qualifications, and the least

amount of overtime hours.

2.  Employees will be permitted to “signup” for overtime through the automated

system.  When an overtime position is available, the automated system will contact

employees on the signup list with all the needed qualifications and the least amount

of overtime hours.  Employees may add or remove their name from a signup list up to

one (1) hour prior to the start of shift - 0700 hours.  If the overtime assignment is not

filled by an employee on the signup list or the signup list is not available due to

manual staffing, overtime will continue to be called in accordance with paragraph

N.1.

3.  Once an employee accepts an overtime assignment, that employee shall be

placed on the list to the appropriate position based on the total number of hours

worked.

4.  Any employee who refuses an overtime assignment of twelve  (12) hours or more

shall be charged as if the employee had actually worked the time.  Assignments of

less than twelve (12) hours shall be charged against the employee only if accepted.  If

an employee declines to accept an assignment of less than twelve (12) hours, there

- 91 -

IAFF 3333

shall be no charge against the employee on the overtime list.  Overtime charges will

be hour for hour (i.e., an employee can not have over twenty-four (24) hours of

charges for one (1) twenty-four (24) period).

5.  Employees shall supply the Fire Rescue Division with one (1) overtime contact

number (i.e., home telephone, cellular telephone, pager, etc.,).  Employees shall

maintain their own overtime number through the automated system.  If the employee

is not contacted, or does not respond to a page, they will not be charged.  If the

employee elects to use a pager as his/her contact number, they will be allowed five

(5) minutes to call back prior to contacting the next qualified employee on the

overtime assignment list.  If there is no sign up list available or if the overtime position

to be filled is an immediate assignment (i.e., a unit is out of service, an employee

needs to go home sick, an employee is on mandatory holdover, etc.,) only two (2)

minutes will be allowed to call back prior to contacting the next qualified employee. 

Although the next employee will be called, the position will be held open for all

employees contacted until it is filled.

6.  If the employee is on a Kelly Day, he/she can be called for an overtime

assignment.  If the employee is on an approved shift swap and unable to accept the

overtime assignment, this will not be charged against the employee.

7.  Employees will be allowed to perform time swaps of up to twelve (12) hours while

on an overtime assignment.

8.  If no employee(s) are available to work the overtime assignment, the Division will

upgrade qualified employee(s) on the shift (according to the temporary upgrading

article), where the overtime is needed, and call overtime (as described above) for the

- 92 -

IAFF 3333

rank/classification that was vacated by the upgrade.

9.    In an effort to prevent the utilization of mandatory overtime assignments, only

after exhausting all measures available and prior to utilizing a mandatory assignment

the County shall be permitted to call persons qualified to work in a higher

classification to fill the overtime assignment in an Acting capacity.  Persons

upgraded while on an overtime assignment shall be entitled to temporary upgrade

pay as outlined in the Temporary Upgrading Article.

10.  The Fire Rescue Division shall attempt to schedule overtime the preceding day.

11.  Employees may request to have their names removed from the overtime roster. 

Should an employee wish to place their name back on the list, they must notify the

Division.  All requests shall be in writing.

O.

After the procedure delineated in Section N of this Article has been followed, the

County has the right to make mandatory overtime assignment beginning with the

lowest person on the seniority roster qualified for the overtime assignment.  The

County will not require the same employee to accept more than one (1) mandatory

assignment within the period of one (1) running year, unless during a declared

emergency situation (by the County Administrator) or natural disaster.  The County

will make every reasonable effort to limit mandatory overtime assignments to twelve

(12) hours when the mandatory overtime to be filled is a full shift.  Any employee

misrepresenting the occurrence of a previous mandatory assignment within a running

twelve (12) month period shall be subject to disciplinary action.  Any mandatory

assignment on an official county holiday will be paid at the rate of double time.  A

running year shall be defined as twelve (12) months from the date the employee was

- 93 -

IAFF 3333

last required to work a mandatory assignment.

P.

All employees who have a change in rank or classification, for any reason (including

but not limited to new employees, promotions, demotions, and mergers), will have

their overtime hour bank adjusted to the average of that specific job classification. 

This includes employees returning to the overtime list after removing their names as

provided in paragraph N.11. above.

Q.

Any employee may be called for overtime assignments of four (4) hours of less. 

Employees who decline an overtime assignment for four (4) hours or less will not

have those hours counted against them on the overtime list.  Employees that accept

an overtime assignment for four (4) hours or less will have the actual hours worked

charged against them.

Employees shall not be permitted to work an overtime assignment while on an

approved leave.

No employee would normally be contacted to work an overtime assignment after

working or are scheduled to work forty-eight (48) consecutive hours excluding

R.

S.

holdovers.

T.

Within fifteen (15) days of ratification of this agreement all overtime banks shall be

reset to zero.

- 94 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 49 

MAINTENANCE

A. 

Members of the bargaining unit will perform normal preventative vehicle maintenance

including the following:

1.

2. 

3. 

4.  

5. 

6.

Checking battery water level if accessible, and maintaining at
recommended operating level;

Checking engine oil level and maintaining at recommended operating
level;

Checking fuel level and maintaining at practical and useable operating
level;

Checking tire pressure and maintaining at recommended operating
level;

Checking of transmission fluid level, if accessible, and maintaining at
recommended operating level; and

Routine cleaning of vehicle.

B.

Normal equipment maintenance will be performed by employees, including the

following:

1. 

2. 

3. 

Routine cleaning of equipment;

Charging batteries to operating level; and

Replacing batteries.

C.

D.

Station duties shall consist of normal housekeeping responsibilities.

Members of the bargaining unit will promptly report to their immediate supervisor any

deficiency in the above or any other mechanical or physical condition of vehicles or

equipment requiring maintenance or repair.

- 95 -

IAFF 3333

E.

Members of this bargaining unit will perform no lawn, building, or property

maintenance.

- 96 -

IAFF 3333

    

ARTICLE 50

COMMUNICABLE DISEASES/HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

The County agrees that employees covered by this Agreement who feel that they

may have been exposed to a communicable disease or to a hazardous material as a

direct result of the performance of their duties for the County, may file a Notice of First

Injury (BCL-1) which will be kept on file by the County indefinitely.  However, the parties

specifically agree and understand that nothing in this Article shall be construed as a

presumption that any exposure to a communicable disease; or exposure to hazardous

material, is job related or that any claim for worker's compensation benefits is 

Compensable.

- 97 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 51

 DRIVER ENGINEER

A.

B.

It is agreed by both parties that the classification/rank of Driver Engineer shall

continue to be maintained within the bargaining unit.

Further, it is our mutual understanding that Driver Engineers shall be assigned to all

in service engines, pumper tankers, squirts, ladder trucks and similar apparatus

which require a knowledge of pumps and hydraulics to operate.

C.

As evidenced in the pay plan Appendix A - Driver Engineer immediately precedes

the position of Fire Rescue Lieutenant.

- 98 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE 52

LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING

The attached Letters of Understanding, listed below, are to continue in effect throughout

the term of this agreement.

             Date                          

Subject

1)  December 6, 1990       Alternate Work Schedules

2) July 6, 1998                   Fire Rescue Captain/Communications 

                     Supervisor

3) April 9, 1996                  Medical Coverage Plan for Disabled 

                     Employees

4) July 1, 1998                   Two Year Promotional Test 

                     Schedule

5) Date of Signing              Pilot Wellness Program

6) Date of Signing              Implementation of Consolidated Classifications

- 99 -

IAFF 3333

ARTICLE  53

TERM OF AGREEMENT

Section 1.  The provisions of this agreement shall be effective for fiscal year 2000/2001 upon

ratification of the Union membership and approval of the Board of County

Commissioners for Broward County, Florida except as otherwise provided in the

Agreement, and shall continue in force through September 30, 2001.

Section 2.  This agreement shall continue in effect subsequent to September 30, 2001 or until

a successor agreement is approved and implemented except as otherwise provided in

the Agreement.  If either party desires to modify this agreement, the moving party must

notify the other in writing of its intent to bargain at least one hundred twenty (120) days

prior to September 30, 2001.  In the event such notice is given, negotiations shall begin

no later than ninety (90) days prior to September 30, 2001.

- 100 -

IAFF 3333

SIGNATURE PAGE

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be

     executed and signed by their duly authorized representatives, as of this _____ day

     of__________ , 2001.

FOR BROWARD COUNTY:                                   FOR LOCAL 3333 - IAFF:

_____________________                                    _________________________
Commission Chairperson                                       President

______________________                                  __________________________
County Administrator                                             Vice President                 

______________________                                  _________________________
Director                                                                  Negotiating Team Member
of Human Resources            

______________________                                  __________________________
Witness                                                                 Witness

- 101 -

IAFF 3333

