Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

32

Language English

Country United States

State MI

Union IATSE (International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and Moving Picture Technicians) 

AFL-CIO
IATSE & MPMO Local 274

Local

Amusement and recreation attendants 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Michigan State University
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear

2002

Source

http://www.hr.msu.edu/Docweb/contracts/default.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)
Notes Actual job title is Stagehands, not a DOL term

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT 

Between 

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 

 

 

 

 

 

and 

of the 

 

 

 

and 

IATSE & MPMO, Local 274 

INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF THEATRICAL STAGE EMPLOYEES 

MOVING PICTURE MACHINE OPERATORS  

of the United States and Canada 

September 1, 1999 - August 31, 2002 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

                     

 PARAGRAPH   

PAGE 

 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLES  TITLES                   
 
     1 
 
 
     2 
 
     3 

 
 
 

 

  Agreement ....................................................................1 

  Recognition ..................................................................2-3 

 

  Rights of the Employer................................................4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     4 
 
     5 
 
     6 

 
     7 
 
     8 
 
     9 
 
    10 
 
    11 
 
 
 

 

  Union Security..............................................................5-8 

  Union Dues...................................................................9-19 

  Wage Rates, Benefits and Conditions 

  of Employment ..........................................................20-36    

  General Conditions ......................................................37-46 

  Buildings and Facilities................................................47 

  Recruitment and Selection...........................................48-63 

  Grievance Procedure....................................................64-66 

 

Term of the Agreement................................................67 

  Appendix I: Letters of Agreement .............................. 

 

 1 

 1 

 1-2 

 2 

 3-4 

 5-11 

11-12 

12-14 

14-15 

16 

17 

18 

ARTICLE 1  
 
 
AGREEMENT 
 
 
- 1  
THIS AGREEMENT is made this 29th day of March, 2000, through the 31st day of August, 
2002, by and between Michigan State University (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer") of East 
Lansing, State of Michigan, and Lansing, Michigan Local No. 274 of the International Alliance of 
Theatrical Stage Employees and Moving Picture Machine Operators of the United States and Canada 
(hereinafter referred to as the "Union"). 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
 
RECOGNITION 
 
 
- 2 

The University recognizes IATSE Local 274 as the exclusive representative for the purpose of 
collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, hours of employment, and other conditions 
of employment for employees as defined in Article 6, Sections A, B, and C and Article 9 
(Recruitment and Selection), paragraph 49. 

 
- 3 

This Agreement shall apply to and cover stage employees, moving picture machine operators 
employed by the Employer in the city of East Lansing, Michigan.  Such stage employees, 
moving picture machine operators shall, unless otherwise specifically designated, be referred 
to hereinafter as "employees."  This Agreement shall apply to and cover regular full-time and 
regular part-time stagehand employees of Michigan State University, but exclude the Director 
of Performing Arts, Facilities and Programs; the Technical Director; the Director of Breslin 
Student Events Center; and their designees; all other Michigan State University employees 
and students; and Productions sponsored by Residence Hall Association (RHA) in Residence 
Halls and Academic Buildings. 

 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
 
RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYER 
 
- 04 

Subject only to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, or in any written supplement to 
this Agreement, the Employer's right to manage its business shall be unimpaired.  These 
rights shall include, but not be limited to, the right to hire, lay off,  promote, suspend or 

 
 

- 1 -

demote, discipline, or discharge for proper cause, to determine the extent to which facilities 
are operated, including, but not limited to the services to be performed by the employees, and 
to  extend,  limit  or  curtail  its  operations  when it may deem it advisable to do so.  The 
Employer will not use the provision of this Article for the purpose of unlawful discrimination 
against any member of the Union. 

All such employees currently members of the Union shall be required, as a condition of 
continued employment, to remain members of the Union during the term of this Agreement. 
All  such  employees  hereafter  engaged  shall  be  required,  as  a  condition  of  continued 
employment,  to  become  and  remain  members  of  the Union on and after the 30th day 
following the beginning of their employment.  An employee who fails to become or to 
remain a member of the Union as herein provided shall be dismissed by the Employer 
immediately upon demand of the Union.  Nothing contained herein shall, however, require 
the Employer to discharge or in any way to discriminate against any employee who has been 
denied membership or has had his/her membership in the Union terminated for any reason 
other  than  the  failure  of  such  employee  to  tender the periodic dues and initiation fees 
uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership. 

The Employer agrees not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment 
by reason of membership in the Union or because of anything said or done in furtherance of 
the Union. 

As the Union is a member of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and 
Moving Picture Machine Operators of the United States and Canada, nothing in this contract 
shall ever be construed to interfere with any obligation the Union owes to such International 
Alliance by reason of a prior obligation nor shall anything in this Collective Bargaining 
Agreement interfere with any obligation the Employer (the Director of Performing Arts, 
Facilities and Programs and/or the Director of Jack Breslin Student Events Center) has to 
Michigan State University.  However, these conditions shall in no event be construed so as to 
conflict with any applicable State or Federal Laws.  

The Employer will not aid, promote or finance any labor group or organization that purports 
to  engage  in  collective  bargaining  or  make  any  agreement  with  any  such  group  or 
organization for the purpose of undermining the Union. 

- 2 -

 
 
ARTICLE 4 
 
 
UNION SECURITY 
 
 
- 5 

 
- 6 

 
- 7 

 
-8 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 5 
 
 
UNION DUES 
                         

A.  Payment by Checkoff or Direct to Union 

 
- 9 

 
- 10 

 

 
-11 

 

 
-12 

 

 
-13  

 

 
 
 

The Employer will check off dues or service charges on the basis of individually signed 
voluntary check-off authorization cards in forms that have been agreed to by the Employer 
and the Union.  Employees may tender membership dues or service charges by signing the 
proper  authorization  for  check-off  form,  or  may  pay  the  same  directly  to  the  Union.  
Employees may cancel authorizations for checkoff of Union dues or service charges and 
make such payments directly to the Union. 
 
B.  Employer Responsibility for Deductions 

The  Employer  shall  have  no  responsibility  for  the  collection  of  initiation  fees  and 
membership dues, or service charges, or any other assessments that are not in accordance 
with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement. 

C.  Delivery of Executed Authorizations for Checkoff 

A properly executed copy of the form authorizing checkoff by an employee for whom 
membership  dues  or  service  charges  are  to  be  deducted  in  accordance  with  the  Union 
Security Clause of the Agreement shall be delivered to the Employer before any payroll 
deductions are made.  Deductions shall be made thereafter only under a properly executed 
authorization for checkoff which is in effect.  Any authorization for check-off form which is 
incomplete or in error will be returned to the Business Agent of the Union by the Employer. 

D.  When Deductions Begin  

Deductions under all properly executed authorizations for checkoff shall become effective at 
the time such authorizations are tendered to the Employer and shall be deducted from the 
first (1st) pay of the month and biweekly thereafter. 

E.  Refunds 

In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already has 
made to the Union, or where  a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the 
Union Constitution or Bylaws, refunds to the employee will be made by the Union. 

F.  Remittance of Deductions 

- 3 -

-14   Deductions for any calendar month shall be remitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union 
as  soon  as  possible  after  the  first  pay  of  that  month.    The  Employer  shall  furnish  the 
Secretary-Treasurer of the Union a monthly list of employees for whom deductions have 
been made and the amounts thereof. 

G.  Termination of Checkoff 

 
-15   An employee shall cease to be subject to check-off deductions beginning with the month 
immediately following the month in which he/she is no longer a member of the bargaining 
unit.  The Union will be notified by the Employer of the names of such employees following 
the end of each month in which the termination took place. 

H.  Disputes Concerning Checkoff 

 
-16   Any dispute between the Union and the Employer which may arise as to whether or not an 
employee properly executed or properly revoked an authorization for checkoff, shall be 
reviewed with the employee by a representative of the local Union and the representative of 
the University.  The decision of the representative of the local Union and the representative of 
the University shall be final and binding on the employee, the Union, and the Employer.  
Until the matter is disposed of, no further deductions shall be made. 

 

 

 

 
-17  

 

 
-18 

 

 
-19  

I.  Limit of Employer's Liability 

The  Employer  shall  not  be  liable  to  the  Union  by  reason  of  the  requirements of this 
Agreement for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual 
deductions made from wages earned by employees. 

J.  Disputes Concerning Membership 

Any dispute arising as to an employee's membership in the Union shall be reviewed by the 
representative  of  the  University  and  a  representative of the local Union.  However, the 
employee may be retained at work while the dispute is being resolved. 

K.  Employer Liability 

The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any liability resulting from 
any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising from compliance with this 
Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or authorization furnished under this 
Article. 

 
 
 
ARTICLE 6 
 
 

- 4 -

 
 
WAGE RATES, BENEFITS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT 
 
 

A.  Regular Full-time Employees 

 
-20 

 
-21 

 
-22 

 
-23 

 

 
 

Regular full-time employees who are satisfactory to the University, shall be employed in the 
same manner as other employees situated in the Administrative-Professional Association 
bargaining unit, except that their rate of pay shall be adjusted by a three (3) percent in the 
base adjustment effective September 1, 1999; a three (3) percent in the base adjustment 
effective September 1, 2000, a one (1) percent in the base adjustment effective September 1, 
2001 to be in charge of and utilized in the operation of the mechanical systems or attendant 
equipment and such other stage work in designated buildings on campus which shall be 
assigned to them by the Directors or other designated University official(s).  Such full-time 
employees shall be employed in the same manner and subject to existing rules, regulations 
and benefits of the University relating to its employment of Administrative-Professional 
Association Personnel except as such benefits are improved herein.  Employees classified as 
regular full-time and part-time will be eligible for special merit pay consideration. 
 
B.  Regular Part-time Employees 

Regular part-time employees who are satisfactory to the University may be employed and 
payable in the same manner as other employees are paid, except that the rate of pay for this 
position shall be at least twenty-five  (25) cents per hour more than the rate of pay for on-call 
personnel, except Forklift Operator and Rigger.  Such employees shall perform duties as 
assigned by the Director or other University designated official(s).  Such part-time employees 
shall be employed in the same manner and subject to existing rules, regulations and benefits 
of the University relating to its employment of nonacademic, part-time personnel, except as 
such benefits are improved herein.  Such regular part-time employees shall be employed not 
less than 50% of full-time employment. (40 hours a week). 

The salary of an employee whose position is reclassified to a higher grade level shall be no 
less than the minimum salary of the higher grade level. 
 
C.  On-call Employees 

     a.  The Employer agrees to pay per hour rate not less than the following schedule of 

rates for the work performed. 

 
 
 

       
 

      

 

 

               Effective                Effective  Effective 

- 5 -

 

 

      

   9/1/1999 

 

 

  Camera Operator, Property Person 

 
 
    Carpenter, Flyman..............................$14.10 
  Electrician, Lamp Operator................    “ 
     Assistant Electrician ............................    “ 
   Grip, Projectionist, AV Tech,  . . . . ...    “ 
 
    Wardrobe. . . . . . . . . ...........................    “ 
    Maintenance, Other Work . . . . .. ......    “ 
  Rigger   
 
 
 

  Wharton Center   
        Up ................................................  17.10 
        Down ..........................................  15.00 
  Auditorium  
        Up ................................................  17.10 
        Down ..........................................  15.00 
  Munn .................................................   
        Up ................................................  21.45 
        Down ..........................................  16.23 
  Breslin 
        Up ................................................  24.85 
        Down...........................................  18.80 
  Jenison 
        Up ................................................  27.40 
        Down...........................................  20.73 

 

 

          9/1/2000 9/1/2001 

 $14.20 
     “ 
     “ 
     “ 

     “ 
     “ 

   17.30 
   15.20 

   17.30 
   15.20 

   21.65 
   16.43 

   25.05 
   19.00 

   27.60 
   20.93 

$14.34 
“ 
“  
“ 

“ 
“ 

  17.47 
  15.35 

  17.47 
  15.35 

  21.87 
  16.59 

  25.30 
  19.19 

  27.88 
  21.14 

 

  

 

 

b.  1.    A minimum call for load in, load out or work call shall be four (4) hours for 
everything except spotlight moving, which shall be three (3) hours, or when 
an employee is working on the show call and is moved to load out, in 
which case it shall be considered a work continuation. 

2.    There shall be a four (4) hour minimum call for riggers.  If available, other 

work will be assigned. 

If it is necessary to break a crew prior to completion of an assignment, two 
(2) riggers shall be retained until the steel is safetied at performance height.
 

 

   
 
 
 

 

 

 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                  

 
3.   

 
 

 

c. 

Work Assignments for On-call Employees 

- 6 -

On-call  employees  will  be  assigned  stage  work  related  to  the  needs  of  the 
function by the Director or other designated University official(s). 

d.  When an employee is assigned to perform work servicing and programming 
computers,  servicing  and  repairing  circuit  boards  and  lighting  and  sound 
systems, 10% premium will be added to her/his base pay for those specific hours 
worked. 

e.  Any continuing work performed which requires a technician to leave catwalks, 
"Genie Lifts", or other "safe structure" above the height of 20 feet above stage 
height,  or  20  feet  above  the  floor  height  and/or  without  a  safety  net,  as 
applicable, shall receive a 20 percent premium. 

f.  Union elected officers who are required to attend meetings with the Employer 
while performing duties for the Employer will be paid for all hours occurring 
during their hours of work. 

g.  Special  skills  premium  shall  be  added  to  the  base  pay  for  the  following 

classifications: 

Departments Heads for carpenter, flyrail, properties, 
 Wardrobe, electrics, sound and light projection: 
 
 
Light and sound board operators: 
 
 
Video, TV, projection and camera operation:  
 
Fork lift operator: 
 
 
 
  
Master Electrician (hook ups): 
 
  
 
Flyman: 
 
  
 
Slide projectionist: 
  Hair and makeup: 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

15 percent 
10 percent 
20 percent 
10 percent 
  5 percent 
  5 percent 
  5 percent 
45 percent 

 

 

h.  A ten (10) percent premium will be paid to any employee required to work while 

in Road Company supplied costumes. 

i.  When the Employer determines that training will be offered to introduce new 
equipment  or  processes,  it  will  notify  the  Union  Secretary  so  that  an 
announcement can be placed in the Union newsletter.  The dates for the training 
will be set with input from the Union Business Agent. 

 
 
 
 
Performance and/or Dress Rehearsals four (4) times the schedule of rates for the work  
performed per employee per show, with three and one-half (3 1/2) maximum show time    

- 7 -

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

-24 
 
 
 

inclusive of preparatory time as follows.  Show call is one-half (1/2) hour before show time. 
For Performing Arts Co. productions only, show call is one hour and fifteen minutes (1 1/4) 
hours  before  show  time.    Wharton  Center  educational  productions  (Act  One)  whose 
performances are designated solely for school groups, with two (2) one hour shows per day, 
shall be considered one five (5) hour show call including prep time, with one normal meal 
break provided between shows.  Note:  Both shows fall within the five hour time frame. 

The Employer will attempt to provide rest periods not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes during 
each half-day (four hours) of work.  The rest periods are scheduled by the supervisor and are 
to be taken in a manner that does not interfere with the efficiency of the operation. 

 
-25 
 
 
 
-26 
 
                                                               

 

 

 

 
-27 
 

 

 
 

Any resumption of work after any break, other than a normal meal break, shall constitute   
a new call, with the four (4) hour minimum. 

A.  When work is performed after five (5) hours, unless and until workers do receive a one 
hour meal break, such time worked shall be time and one-half, until break for normal 
meal is given.  After an initial five (5) hours, no meal break will be given if work can be 
completed within one additional hour. 

 
B.  If work cannot be completed within one (1) additional hour after a meal break, a meal 
break of one (1) hour may be given.  Time and one-half will be paid for work of less than 
two (2) hours after a meal break. 

C.   A. and B., above, will be void in the event Union employees traveling with the show are 

unable to comply in order to keep the work crew intact at all times. 

D.   In order to keep the work flow continuing an abbreviated meal period of at least thirty 
(30) minutes will be provided during which employees will be provided a meal at the sole 
expense of the Employer. 

E.  When work is performed after eight (8) hours, the decision to schedule an unpaid meal 
period or an abbreviated meal period, as appropriate, shall be at the discretion of the 
Employer in each case. 

On all Yellow Card performances there shall be one person per department (carpenter,  
electrician, property person, etc.) designated as a lead person.  This person shall receive extra 
compensation in the amount of fifteen percent (15%) for hours worked or the performance 
rate, whichever is applicable.  A University student who is recommended by the Employer, 
paid the Union rate, and utilized before other non-card carrying stagehands are utilized, will 
be included by the Business Agent on all Yellow Card performances as a part of the Yellow 
Card if the call exceeds six (6) persons. 

- 8 -

Overtime (time and one-half) shall be paid on all above rates on the following and shall be 

-28 
computed on the basis of one-half (1/2) hour increments: 
 

a.  After eight (8) hours in any one day. 

Double Time shall be paid on the actual date of the holiday the University recognizes and 

 
-29 
shall be computed on the basis of one-half (1/2) hour increments: 
 

a.  After eight (8) hours in any one day. 

b.  Between 1 a.m. and 7 a.m. 

- 9 -

b.  Between 1 a.m. and 7 a.m. 
 
c.  The actual date of the holiday the University recognizes: 

 

September 1, 1999 – August 31, 2000 

 
Labor Day:  
 
Thanksgiving: 
 
Christmas:  
 
New Year’s: 
Memorial Day: 
 
Independence Day: 

September 6 
November 25 
December 25 
January 1 
May 29 
July 4 

September 1, 2000 – August 31, 2001 

 
Labor Day:  
 
Thanksgiving: 
 
Christmas:  
 
New Year’s: 
 
Memorial Day: 
Independence Day: 

September 4 
November 23 
December 25 
January 1 
May 28 
July 4 

September 1, 2001 – August 31, 2002 

 
Labor Day:  
 
Thanksgiving: 
 
Christmas:  
 
New Year’s: 
Memorial Day: 
 
Independence Day: 

September 3 
November 22 
December 25 
January 1 
May 27 
July 4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

F.  Motion Pictures 

 
-34  Motion pictures which are shown to the general public or private group or any organization 
shall receive four (4) times the schedule of rates for the work performed of the show rate of 
one showing with a maximum of three and one-half (32) hours. 

-30 
 
 
-31 
  
 

 
-32 

 
-33 

 

 
-35 

 

 
-36 

 

 
 
 

For the purpose of time and one-half and/or double time, a change in Employer number  
shall constitute a new call. 

The past practice of personnel having the option to accept either the show rate or hourly 
rate shall continue.  Such option must be exercised prior to the work being performed. 

D.  Stage Managers 

The  hiring  salary  shall  be  commensurate  with  the  demonstrated skills, background and 
experience.  This is a single rate position and no pay adjustments other than specified in this 
Agreement shall be contractually required. 

 

    

E.  Flat-Rating 

Loaders shall be at the rate of $35.00 per person, per semi-trailer truck, minimum four (4) 
persons; $22.50 per person for each truck of lesser size than semi, minimum two (2) persons; 
and $10.00 per bus or van, minimum two (2) persons (if a bus is loaded with equipment -- 
used as a truck -- the truck rate of $22.50 per person will obtain). 

Any time the showing shall run beyond the three and one-half (32) hour maximum, the rate 
shall be time and one-half, per hour or any fraction thereof. 

G.  Core Group 

Individuals who have been interviewed and selected by the Employer to be members of 
the IATSE Local 274/MSU “Core Group” shall be scheduled by the employer from 
September 1 – May 31.  The Employer understands the “Core Group” will be free to 
accept other work from June 1 – August 31 and during times they do not appear on the 
regular schedule.  On days when work is not available in any of the Employer’s facilities, 
the individual shall contact the Union Business Agent to have her/his name placed on the 
call list.  The “Core Group” will be scheduled approximately two (2) weeks in advance. 

a.  All conditions of this Agreement pertaining to on-call employees shall apply. 
 
b.  Compensation shall be $1.50 per hour more than general stagehand rate excluding 

forklift operator and riggers.  Premium pay still applies. 

- 10 -

c.  There shall be no guarantee of set number of hours per week/month/year. 

d.  “Core Group” employees will be eligible to purchase Employer health and dental 

coverage at Employer rates. 

e.  Dress requirements, at times, shall be more refined as compared to general on-call 

stagehand work. 

 
 
ARTICLE 7 
 
 
GENERAL CONDITIONS 
 
 
-37 

 

 

 
-38 

 
-39 
 
 
-40 

 
-41 

 
-42 

 
-43 

 
-44 

 
 

Slide projectors and effect machines used in the performances at the University Auditorium 
and Wharton Center shall be operated by bargaining unit personnel. 

This  contract  covers  theatrical  work  performed  in  the  Fairchild  Theatre,  University 
Auditorium, Jenison Fieldhouse, Munn Ice Arena, Wharton Center, Breslin Student Events 
Center, and any other buildings assigned by University officials. 

The Employer reserves the right to provide supplemental qualified personnel in the event  
the Union cannot furnish adequate employees. 

On September 15th of each year the Union will present a list of available persons to the 
Director of Performing Arts, Facilities and Programs and Director of Breslin Student Events 
Center for review. 

As new members become available, the appropriate director will be notified before they shall 
be scheduled to work for one of their shows. 

It is understood that the Employer may, with reasonable and just cause, direct that specific 
individuals not be referred to calls. 

The classification, Stage Manager, and the following functional job descriptions are being 
utilized:  Stage Manager Wharton Center; Assistant Stage Manager Wharton Center; Stage 
Manager Auditorium and Assistant Stage Manager, and/or Stage Manager Breslin Student 
Events Center.  The Employer retains the sole right to establish new classifications and job 
descriptions, and modify and eliminate existing classifications and job descriptions. 

The business agent or designated representative will supply the director or designee with a list 
of personnel and work assignments for each call no less than one (1) hour prior to the start of 

- 11 -

 
-45 
 

 

 

 
-46 

call.  A minimum of twelve (12) hours shall be given if the business agent or designated 
representative is unable to meet the personnel requirement of the call. 

Job Shadowing 

The Employer and the Union recognize that job shadowing is an effective training tool.  
The Employer shall therefore permit job shadowing with the understanding that: 

A.  The Union shall provide prior notice including names of persons shadowing as well as 

those shadowed. 

B.  That upon prior notification by the Union of a job shadowing event the Employer may 

withdraw or modify its permission. 

The Employer and the Union participate on the Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee 
(JATC).  The JATC and the Union recognize the Michigan State Technology 
Apprenticeship Program (MSTAP) at Lansing Community College as an apprenticeship 
training program.  As a condition of approval of this program the Union shall provide 
special consideration for MSTAP apprentices when filling work orders. 

 
 
ARTICLE 8 
 
 
BUILDING AND FACILITIES 
 
 
-47 
 

Should any University building or facility, that is designated and incorporated in this  
Agreement, be rented, leased or loaned to any party or organization other than Michigan 
State University for any type of production, it is agreed that all terms and conditions of this 
Agreement will apply with the following exceptions: 

a.  Theatre Department 

Insofar as the Theatre Department is concerned, the University retains the right to continue 
and  initiate  academic  programs  which  will  expose  students  to  all  aspects  of  theatrical 
productions.  Such programs will adhere to University curriculum standards of acceptable 
laboratory/ studio activity.  Such programs, however, will not be conducted in an attempt to 
avoid using IATSE bargaining unit members.  The past practice of the Theatre Department of 
staffing under the terms of the Agreement will continue. 
 
b.  Music Department 

- 12 -

 

 

 
 
 

Insofar as the Music Department is concerned, the University retains the right to continue and 
initiate academic programs which will expose students to all aspects of music presentations.  
Such programs will adhere to University curriculum standards of acceptable laboratory/studio 
activity.  Such programs, however will not be conducted in an attempt to avoid using IATSE 
bargaining unit members.  Three stage technicians from the local call-board will be utilized 
for operas.  If there is a need for a fourth person, an on-site determination will be made by the 
Artistic Director and the Union.  The PAC Director's determination will be final and binding 
in the event that mutual agreement is not reached. If an opera call exceeds a total of thirteen 
(13) stagehands including students, the Technical Directors and the Union will meet to 
discuss additional staffing.  Any impasse will be resolved by the Director of Performing Arts 
Facilities and Programs. 

c.  ASMSU 

 

1.  Presentations of ASMSU held in the Auditorium, Wharton Center for Performing 
Arts for which ASMSU has entered into an agreement with a promoter shall be 
considered to be under the full terms of this Agreement. 

2.  In presentations of ASMSU held in the Auditorium, Wharton Center for Performing 
Arts which are "self-promoted" by ASMSU, students shall be permitted to load and 
unload vehicles. 

3.  In presentations of ASMSU which are held at Munn Ice Arena, Jenison Fieldhouse, 
students  shall  be  utilized  for  all  work  except  for  rigging,  follow  spots,  sound, 
stagelighting and "deckhand" work. 

 d.  JACK BRESLIN STUDENT EVENTS CENTER 

 
The terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as modified by the terms of 
Article 8, Section d, shall apply to the Breslin Student Events Center. 

 

 

 

 

                 

 

 

 
 

1.  The  Director  of  Breslin  Student  Events  Center  and  designees  will  have  the 
responsibility  to  determine  complement  levels,  but  will  consider  suggestions 
proffered by the Union, especially those offered for reasons of safety. 

2.  The  Director  of  Breslin  Student  Events  Center,  Assistant  Director  and  student 
designees will have the prerogative to perform any duties.  Concerns over this section 
will be dealt with in Special  Conferences, wherein good faith efforts will be made to 
resolve the concerns. 

3.  On-call  personnel  can  be  dismissed  individually  where  indicated,  instead  of  by 

department except where "Yellow Card" overrides this provision. 

 

- 13 -

4.  Overtime will be after eight hours (as opposed to paragraph 26).  Meal breaks will be 
given after a determined number of hours worked.  Such hours shall not exceed five 
except in unusual circumstances. 

5.  Student  workers  will  be  utilized  for  any  work  for  which  they  are  qualified,  as 

determined by the Director of Breslin Student Events Center and designees. 

 
   

 

                                          

6.  The University recognizes that the significant role served by IATSE bargaining unit 
employees enhances its ability to offer with the highest professional standards a 
variety of theatrical, musical, and popular entertainment events.  Thus, it is not the 
intent of the University, by its utilization of students, to diminish or otherwise erode 
the role of IATSE employees. 

 
 
ARTICLE 9 
 
 
RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION 
 
 

A.  Present Positions Under Union Jurisdiction 

The Employer shall give the Union sufficient advance notice of all vacancies for positions 
coming within the scope of this Agreement; but it is agreed between the parties hereto that 
hiring of employees hereunder shall not be inconsistent with any applicable State or Federal 
laws. 

In hiring persons to perform services covered by the terms of this Agreement, the Employer 
shall grant preference of employment to those persons who have previously been employed 
as stage employees, and moving picture machine operators within the following described 
geographical area:  East Lansing, Michigan. 

In recruitment and selection for full-time or part-time regular employee positions falling 
under the jurisdiction of the Union, the following procedure will be utilized. 

Regular full-time or part-time employees of the University falling under the jurisdiction of the 
Union, who possess the minimum qualifications for any vacancy in any other regular full-
time or part-time position falling under the jurisdiction of the Union, shall have the right of 
bid and selection before any other applicant shall be considered.  If more than one such 
regular employee bids on a vacancy, seniority shall prevail. 
 
 
B.  Absent the Operation of Section A 

- 14 -

 
-48 

 
-49 

 
-50 

 
-51 

 
 

 
-52 
 
-53 

 
-54 

 
-55 

 
-56 

 
-57 

 
-58 

 
-59 

 
-60 

 
-61 

 
-62 

 
-63 

Absent the operation of Section A, the following procedure will be utilized. 

The University will fill positions through its Office of Human Resource Services.  Positions 
will  be  filled  from  applicants  based  on  their  abilities  as  determined  by  the Director of 
Performing Arts, Facilities and Programs, and/or Director of Breslin Student Events Center. 

The University will provide the Union with classification descriptions as soon as they are 
prepared by the Classification/Compensation Division. 

The University will provide the Union with copies of the job announcements as soon as they 
are to be posted. 

The Union will then be given the opportunity to survey its membership to determine the 
interest in applying for the positions announced. 

The Union may obtain MSU applications for use by those interested in applying for the 
positions. 

The Union will submit completed applications to the MSU Human Resource Services within 
the time limits provided for in the posting. 

Human  Resource  Services  will  review  the  applications  and  submit  the  applications  of 
applicants determined to possess minimum qualifications to the Director of Performing Arts, 
Facilities and Programs, and/or Director of Breslin Student Events Center. 

The Director of Performing Arts, Facilities and Programs, and/or Director of Breslin Student 
Events Center will arrange to interview the applicants so submitted. 

The Director of Performing Arts, Facilities and Programs, and/or Director of Breslin Student 
Events Center will select or reject applicants based on the interviews. 

Applicants referred by the Union shall be given first consideration and selected or rejected 
before other applicants will be considered. 

If  the  positions  are  not  filled  by  the  applicants  referred  by  the  Union,  the  Director  of 
Performing Arts, Facilities and Programs, and/or Director of Breslin Student Events Center 
will provide Human Resource Services with written reasons for their rejection.  The Union 
will be given written notice of all candidates who are rejected. 

 
ARTICLE 10 
 
 
 
 

 

- 15 -

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
 
 
-64 
 

If differences of opinion or disputes between the Employer and any employee covered  
by this Agreement regarding an interpretation or alleged violation of any provision of this 
contract, cannot be resolved by the employee, the Union and the Unit involved, the issue may 
be submitted in writing to the Office of Employee Relations.  If differences of opinion arise 
concerning  the  interpretation  or  application  of  this  contract  as  it  applies  to  a  specific 
production, the Union will not initiate or support any action that may hinder the production's 
completion as the dispute will be resolved through this paragraph. 

 
-65 

 
-66 
 

 
 

The Union and the University agree that if no resolution is reached regarding the alleged 
violation, the Union shall submit the issue in writing to the Office of Employee Relations on 
or before the 30th day after its alleged occurrence.  The Office of Employee Relations shall 
hold a meeting within ten (10) working days thereafter and issue the University position ten 
(10) working days after the meeting.  If the answer is unsatisfactory, the Union shall have ten 
(10) working days from the date the answer is received to appeal to arbitration at the Office of 
Employee Relations or file a demand to arbitration with AAA. 

The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties. 

- 16 -

ARTICLE 11 
 
 
TERM OF THE AGREEMENT 
 
 
-67 

This contract to be in force and binding from and after the 1st day of September, 1999, 
through the 31st day of August, 2002, and from year to year thereafter unless notice of 
termination or modification is given as hereinafter provided.  At least sixty (60) days prior to 
the expiration date hereof, the parties shall meet and confer to negotiate the terms of a new 
Agreement to take effect upon the expiration of this Agreement unless notice of termination 
has been given. 

 
 
FOR THE EMPLOYER  
 
 
                                   
Fred Poston 
 
 
                                   
C. Keith Groty  
 
 
                                   
Samuel A. Baker      

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

                                  
Diana Baribeau 
 
 
                                   
Scott Breckner  
 
 
                                   
Brian Archer 
 
 
                                  
Gavin Smith 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

FOR THE UNION 

                                 
 

Michael David 

                                 
 

Michael Wright      

                                  
 

William Minihan                    
 

 

 

 

       
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

- 17 -

APPENDIX I 

LETTERS OF AGREEMENT  

 
 

 

 
 

- 18 -

 

 

 

January 20,1988 

 

 
 

Sincerely, 

Mr. Samuel A. Baker, Director 
Employee Relations 
Nisbet Office Building 
East Lansing, MI  48824-1229 
 
Dear Mr. Baker: 
 
Herewith, the communication we spoke about during our telephone conversation of 1-19-88. 
 
In a significant number of instances “truck loaders”, working at a flat rate, have been asked to 
wait an inordinate number of hours to unload vehicles, we ask that their remuneration, in these 
instances, be at the very least equal to the current hourly wage equivalent for the total time spent 
on the job. 
 
In Concurrence: 
 
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Employee Relations  
 
Date:  1-21-88 
 
 
 
Reaffirmed by the parties: 
 
 
 
_______________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Employee Relations  
 
 
 
Date ___________________* 
 
* Modified by date only. 
 

 
Michael David 
Business Manager, Local 274 

Dirk Spillemakers, Pres. 
Local 274, I.A.T.S.E. 

Date ____________________* 

________________________ 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

- 19 -

 
 
 

Letter of Agreement* 

Between 

Michigan State University, 

The Employer 

and 

The Union 

International Alliance of Theatrical and Stage Employees, 

“With the exception of lamp cool down time and rewind of film as applies to follow spot 

 
It shall be understood that the following statement regarding “Show Calls” shall apply in 
applicable situations: 
 
 
operators and/or projection/effects machine operators, any work performed by employees on 
show call after final curtain or immediate return of house lights to full (end of show) shall be 
at one hour minimum call.” 
 
 
 

FOR THE EMPLOYER 

 

 

FOR THE UNION 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

_________________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Employee Relations 

 

 
 
 

_________________________ 
Michael David 
Business Manager, Local 274 

Date___8-4-00    __________  

Date____8-4-00___________ 

*  September 9, 1991 Memorandum of Understanding modified March 6, 2000. 

- 20 -

Letter of Agreement 

between 

Michigan State University, 

 
 

the Employer 

and 

IATSE, Local 274, 

the Union 

• 

• 

• 

Effective January 1, 2001, the Employer will pay an amount equal to five 
(5) percent of gross wages earned by each on-call employee covered by 
this Agreement (this does not include full-time and part-time employees in 
this bargaining unit) to the Entertainment Industry Flex Plan Fund in 
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Fund.  These payments 
shall be made monthly to the Fund Administrator and must be transmitted 
within fifteen (15) days after the end of each month. 

This Agreement shall only apply to on-call employees who are represented 
by Local 274, International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees under 
the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Employer 
and the Union. 

The Union shall indemnify and save harmless the Employer from any 
forms of liability resulting from compliance with this Flex Plan provision, 
or any action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of 
complying with this Flex Plan provision. 

This Agreement shall be effective from January 1, 2001, through August 31, 
2002, at which time it will expire and have no further effect unless the Employer 
and the Union mutually agree to its continuation prior to the expiration date of this 
provision. 

FOR THE EMPLOYER 

 

_________________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Employee Relations 

 

DATE __8-4-00   __________ 

 

 
 
 

 

FOR THE UNION 

_________________________ 
Michael David 
Business Manager, Local 274 

DATE __8-4-00____________ 

- 21 -

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

- 22 -

