Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

35

Language English

Country United States

State MI

Union AFSCME (American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees) AFL-CIO

Local Michigan State University local Union Local No. 999, Skilled Trades Council No. 25

Multiple occupations represented

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Michigan State University
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear 2002

Source

http://www.hr.msu.edu/Docweb/contracts/c999.asp

Original_format MS Word (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

Agreement between  

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY  

and  

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY LOCAL UNION NO. 999, 
SKILLED TRADES  

COUNCIL NO. 25, AFSCME, AFL-CIO  
   

July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2002  

Preface  
Agreement  
Purpose and Intent  
Rights of the Employer  
Aid to Other Unions  
Union  
    Recognition  
    Occupational Groups  
    Union Security - Requirements of Union Membership  
    Union Dues, Initiation Fees and Service Charges  
    Representation Districts  
    Stewards and Alternate Stewards  
    Union Bulletin Board  
Seniority  
    Seniority Defined  
    Seniority  
    Seniority Lists  
    Loss of Seniority  
    Seniority of Stewards  
    Seniority of Officers  
    Shift Preference  
Grievance  
    Grievance Procedure  
    Presenting a Grievance  
    Computation of Back Wages  

 

    Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge  
    Medical Dispute  
Layoffs  
    Temporary Layoffs  
    Layoffs  
    Assignment of Skilled Trades Employees  
    Recall Procedure  
    Work Opportunity for Laid-off Employees  
Leave of Absence  
    Absences  
Paid Leaves  
    Holiday Provisions  
    Vacations  
    Personal Leave Hours  
    Sick Leave  
    Funeral Leave  
    Jury Duty  
    Paid Union Leave/Release Time  
Unpaid leaves  
    Personal Leave  
    Leave of Absence for Illness or Disability  
    Military Leave - Extended Service  
    Educational Leave of Absence for Veterans  
    Leave for Union Business  
    Military Leave - Short Tours of Duty  
    General Conditions  
Promotions, Transfers, Demotions  
    Filling of Vacancies  
    Transfers  
Compensation and Wages  
    Classification and Wages  
    Wage Rate Increase Plan  
    Working Hours  
    Time-and-one-half in Seven-day Operations and in Other Specific Areas of Work  
    Equalization of Overtime Hours  
    Longevity Pay  
Benefit Programs  
    Health Care Coverage  (Recent questions have arisen relating to the Health Plan 
language of the Local 999 AFSCME contract. Click here to view a document advising 
you of the current Health Plan options available to you.)  
    Dental  

    Disability Plans  
    Employee-Paid Life Plan  
    Expanded Life Plan  
    Retirement Benefits  
Additional Articles  
    Educational Assistance  
    Assignment of College of Agriculture and Natural Resources Employees  
    Supervision Working  
    Student Labor  
    Special Conferences  
    Safety Apparel  
    Physical Examinations  
    Supplemental Agreements  
    Savings Clause  
    Contract Documents  
    Termination and Modification  
    Effective Date  
    Appendix I - Schedule of Classifications and Grades  
    Appendix II - Schedule of Classifications by Grades  
    Appendix III - Wage Schedule July 1, 1999  
    Appendix IV - Wage Schedule July 1, 2000  
    Appendix V - Wage Schedule July 1, 2001  
    Appendix VI - Definitions  
    Letters of Agreement  

 

PREFACE  

1 - The Board of Trustees of Michigan State University and Michigan State University 
Skilled Trade Local No. 999 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal 
Employee's Union (AFL-CIO) recognize their moral and legal responsibilities under 
federal, state, and local laws relating to fair employment practices.  

2 - The University and the Union recognize the moral principles involved in the area of 
civil rights, fair employment practices and affirmative action and have reaffirmed in their 
Collective Bargaining Agreement their commitment not to discriminate because of race, 
creed, color, sex, age, marital status, handicap, sexual orientation, political persuasion, 
or national origin.  

AGREEMENT  

3 - This Agreement entered into this First day of July 1999, between the Board of 
Trustees of Michigan State University (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer") and 
Michigan State University Skilled Trades Local Union No. 999, Council No. 25, 
American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO (hereinafter 
referred to as the "Union").  

ARTICLE 1 - PURPOSE AND INTENT  

4 - The general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth terms and conditions of 
employment, and to promote orderly and peaceful labor relations for the mutual interest 
of the Employer, the Employees and the Union.  

5 - The parties recognize that the interest of the Employer and job security of the 
employees depend upon the Employer's success in establishing a proper service to the 
State.  

6 - To these ends the Employer and the Union encourage to the fullest degree friendly 
and cooperative relations between the respective representatives at all levels and 
among all employees.  

7 - Accordingly, the officials representing the Employer and the Union will from time to 
time during the life of this Agreement, at the request of either and the mutual 
convenience of both, meet for the purpose of appraising the problems which have 
arisen in the application, administration and interpretation of this Agreement and which 
may be interfering with the attainment of their joint objective as set forth above. Such 
meetings shall not be for the purpose of conducting continuing collective bargaining 
negotiations, nor to in any way modify, add to, or detract from the provisions of this 
Agreement. This article is not a grievable item.  

ARTICLE 2 - RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYER  

8 - The Employer reserves and retains, solely and exclusively, all rights to manage and 
direct its work forces, except as expressly abridged by the provisions of this Agreement, 
including by way of illustration but not limitation, the determination of policies, 
operations, assignments, schedules, discipline, and layoff, for the orderly and efficient 
operation of the University.  

ARTICLE 3 - AID TO OTHER UNIONS  

9 - The Employer will not aid, promote or finance any labor group or organization which 
purports to engage in collective bargaining or make any agreement with any such group 
or organization for the purpose of undermining the Union.  

ARTICLE 4 - RECOGNITION  

10 - Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of Act 379 of the 
Public Acts of 1965, as amended, the Employer does hereby recognize Michigan State 
University Skilled Trades, Local 999, Council 25, AFSCME, AFL-CIO as the exclusive 
representative for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, 
hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for the term of this 
Agreement of all employees of the Employer in the classifications as set forth in 
Appendix I excluding temporary, executive, administrative, academic, students, 
supervisory, professional, technical and clerical personnel.  

ARTICLE 5 - OCCUPATIONAL GROUPS  

11 - Occupational Group I  

Carpenter I  
Carpenter II  
Electrician I  
Electrician II  
Glazier I  
Glazier II  
Grounds Equipment Mechanic  
Locksmith I  
Locksmith II  
Mason I  
Mason II  
Mechanic Auto I  
Mechanic Auto II  
Mechanic Blacksmith I  
Mechanic Blacksmith II  
Mechanic Broadband Communications I  
Mechanic Elevator I  
Mechanic Elevator II  
Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) I  
Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) II  
Mechanic Maintenance I  
Mechanic Maintenance II  
Mechanic Metal Worker I  
Mechanic Metal Worker II  
Mechanic Parking Equipment I  
Mechanic Parking Equipment II  
Mechanic Refrigeration I  

Mechanic Refrigeration II  
Mechanic Telephone I  
Mechanic Telephone II  
Painter I  
Painter II  
Pipe Fitter I  
Pipe Fitter II  
Plasterer I  
Plasterer II  
Plumber I  
Plumber II  
Power Plant Electrician  
Roofer I  
Roofer II  
Trades Helper I  
Trades Helper II  
Upholsterer  
Welder I  
Welder II  

12 - Occupational Group II  

Bindery Machine Operator I  
Bindery Machine Operator II  
Camera Operator/Image Assembler I  
Camera Operator/Image Assembler II  
Printing Press Operator I  
Printing Press Operator II  
Printing Press Operator III  
Printing Production Group Leader  

13 - Occupational Group III  

Instrument Maker I  
Instrument Maker II  
Instrument Maker III  
Mechanic Electronics I  
Mechanic Electronics II  
Mechanic Mechanical Equipment  
Research Shop Coordinator  
Research Trades Assistant I  
Research Trades Assistant II  

ARTICLE 6 - UNION SECURITY- REQUIREMENTS OF UNION MEMBERSHIP  

14 - To the extent allowed by the laws of the State of Michigan, it is agreed that:  

a. Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it becomes effective and 
who are members of the Union at that time shall be required as a condition of 
continued employment to continue membership in the Union for the duration of 
this Agreement.  

b. Employees covered by this Agreement who are not members of the Union at 
the time it becomes effective shall be required as a condition of continued 
employment to become members of the Union for the duration of this Agreement 
on or before the tenth (10th) day after the thirtieth (30th) day following such 
effective date, or pay to the Union a sum equivalent to the initiation fee and 
membership dues as a charge for representation services.  

c. Employees hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred into the bargaining unit 
after the effective date of this Agreement and covered by this Agreement shall 
be required as a condition of continued employment to become members on or 
before the tenth (10th) day after the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of 
their employment in the unit or pay to the Union a sum equivalent to the initiation 
fee and membership dues as a charge for representation services.  

d. An employee who shall tender an initiation fee (if not already a member) and 
the periodic dues, or a sum equivalent to the initiation fee and periodic dues, 
uniformly required of all employees in the bargaining unit that are represented by 
the Union, shall be deemed to meet the conditions of this section.  

e. Employees of the bargaining unit that are represented by the Union shall be 
deemed to be in compliance with this Union Security Clause if they are not more 
than sixty (60) days in arrears in payment of membership dues, or the sum 
equivalent to membership dues as a charge for representation services.  

f. The Employer shall be notified in writing, by the Union, of any employees in 
the bargaining unit that are represented by the Union who are sixty (60) days in 
arrears in payment of membership dues, or the sum equivalent.  

g. The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any and all 
claims, demands, suits, or any other action arising from this Article or from 
complying with any request for termination under this Article. 

ARTICLE 7 - UNION DUES, INITIATION FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES  

A. Payment by Checkoff  

15 - The Employer will check off initiation fees and biweekly dues, or service charges, 
on the basis of individually signed voluntary checkoff authorization cards on forms that 
have been agreed to by the Employer and the Union. Employees shall tender the 
initiation fee uniformly required as a condition of acquiring membership in the Union and 
biweekly membership dues, or service charges, by signing the proper authorization for 
checkoff form. Employees who are members of the Union must remain members for the 
duration of the Agreement.  

B. Employer Responsibility for Deductions  

16 - The Employer shall have no responsibility for the collection of initiation fees and 
membership dues, or service charges, or any other assessments that are not in 
accordance with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement.  

C. Delivery of Executed Authorizations for Checkoff  

17 - A properly executed copy of the form authorizing checkoff by an employee for 
whom initiation fees and biweekly membership dues, or service charges, are to be 
deducted in accordance with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement shall be 
delivered to the Employer before any payroll deductions are made. Deductions shall be 
made thereafter only under a properly executed authorization for checkoff which is in 
effect. Any authorization for checkoff form which is incomplete or in error will be 
returned to the Union Secretary-Treasurer by the Employer.  

D. When Deductions Begin  

18 - Deductions under all properly executed authorizations for checkoff shall become 
effective at the time such authorizations are tendered to the Employer and shall be 
deducted from the first (1st) pay of the month and biweekly thereafter.  

E. Refunds  

19 - In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee 
already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the 
provisions of the Union Constitution or By-Laws, refunds to the employee will be made 
by the Union.  

F. Remittance of Deductions to Secretary-Treasurer  

20 - Deductions for any calendar month shall be remitted to the designated Secretary-
Treasurer as soon as possible after the first pay of that month. The Employer shall 
furnish the designated financial officer, monthly, with a list of those for whom the Union 
has submitted signed forms authorizing checkoff, but for whom no deductions have 
been made. The Union will notify the Office of Employee Relations, in writing, regarding 
changes in designated Secretary-Treasurer and financial officer.  

G. Termination of Checkoff  

21 - An employee shall cease to be subject to checkoff deductions beginning with the 
month immediately following the month in which he/she signs a dues termination card at 
the Union office. The Union will be notified by the Employer of the names of such 
employees following the end of each month in which the termination took place.  

H. Disputes Concerning Checkoff  

22 - Any dispute between the Union and the Employer which may arise as to whether or 
not an employee properly executed or properly revoked an authorization for checkoff, 
shall be a proper subject for a special conference. Until the matter is disposed of, no 
further deductions shall be made.  

I. Limit of Employer's Liability  

23 - The Employer shall not be liable to the Union by reason of the requirements of this 
Agreement for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual 
deductions made from wages earned by employees.  

J. List of Members Paying Dues or Service Charges Directly  

24 - The Union will furnish the Employer, within fifteen (15) days after the effective date 
of this Agreement, the names of all members paying dues or service charges directly to 
the Union. Thereafter, the Union will furnish the Employer a monthly list of any changes.  

K. Disputes Concerning Membership  

25 - Any dispute arising as to an employee's membership in the Union shall be reviewed 
by the designated representative of the Employer and a representative of the Union, 
and if not resolved, may be decided at Step III of the grievance procedure. However, the 
employee may be retained at work while the dispute is being resolved.  

26 - The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any liability 
resulting from any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising from 

compliance with this Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or 
authorization furnished under this Article.  

ARTICLE 8 - REPRESENTATION DISTRICTS  

27 - The number of representation districts in the unit shall be as shown in paragraph 
28, unless the number is increased or decreased by agreement between the Employer 
and the Union. The Employer and the Union may redistrict the unit from time to time by 
mutual agreement.  

28 - The representation districts and the number of Stewards in each district shall be as 
follows:  
   

AREA  

  

STEWARDS 

  

ALTERNATE  
STEWARDS 

Alterations &  
Improvements 
Automotive Services 
Chemistry-Bio 
Chem-  
Plt Res 
Cyclotron 
Electrical-Physical 
Plant 
Engineering 
HVAC Operations 
Mechanical-Physical 
Plant 
Structural-Physical  
Plant 
Telecommunications 
University Printing 

  

  

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 
1 

1 

1 

1 
1 

 

 

 

 

  
 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

ARTICLE 9 - STEWARDS AND ALTERNATE STEWARDS  

29 - In each district, employees in the district shall be represented by one District 
Steward or during his/her absence, an Alternate Steward, who shall be a regular 
employee and working in the district. The District Steward or Alternate Steward shall be 
notified in advance and in writing of scheduled overtime periods. Any concerns over the 

administration of this provision shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration 
procedure. The parties shall use the Special Conference provision to resolve concerns 
relative to this provision. During scheduled overtime periods for more than one 
employee in a district, if the District Steward or Alternate Steward is not scheduled to 
work in accordance with the equalization of overtime provision (Article 45) the District 
Steward or Alternate Steward shall appoint an employee scheduled to work as Acting 
Steward for that particular overtime period.  

30 - The District Stewards, during their working hours, without loss of time or pay shall, 
in their own district, in accordance with the terms of this section, investigate and present 
grievances to the Employer, upon having received permission from his/her Supervisor to 
do so. The Supervisor will normally grant permission and provide sufficient time to the 
District Stewards to leave their work for these purposes subject to necessary 
emergency exceptions. The privilege of District Stewards leaving their work during 
working hours without loss of time or pay is subject to the understanding the time will be 
devoted to the proper handling of grievances and will not be abused; and District 
Stewards will perform their regularly assigned work at all times, except when necessary 
to leave their work to handle grievances as provided herein. One (1) District Steward or 
one (1) Alternate Steward and one (1) executive board member will be excused with 
pay to attend one (1) regularly scheduled stewards or executive board meeting not to 
exceed two (2) hours per month. Any alleged abuse by either party will be a proper 
subject for a Special Conference.  

31 - A Chief Steward, or in his/her absence a designated Alternate Chief Steward, may 
investigate and discuss grievances with District Supervisors and/or District Stewards. 
The Chief Steward, or in his/her absence a designated Alternate Chief Steward, may 
leave his/her work during working hours without loss of pay based on the understanding 
that his/her Supervisor has granted him/her permission to leave his/her work, that the 
time will be devoted to the prompt handling of legitimate grievances, and that he/she will 
perform his/her regularly assigned work at all times except when necessary to leave 
his/her work to handle grievances as provided herein. Any alleged abuse by either party 
will be a proper subject for a Special Conference.  

32 - The Union will furnish the Office of Employee Relations with the names of its 
authorized representatives and members of its grievance committees, and such 
changes as may occur from time to time in such personnel, so that the Employer may at 
all times be advised as to the authority of the individual representatives of the Union 
with which it may be dealing. The Employer will, in return, keep the Union advised as to 
its representatives.  

ARTICLE 10 - UNION BULLETIN BOARD  

33 - The Employer will provide enclosed bulletin boards that may be locked in each 
district which may be used by the Union for posting notices of the following types:  

a. Notices of Union educational, recreational and social events.  

b. Notices of Union elections.  

c.  Notices of results of Union elections.  

d. Notices of Union meetings.  

e. Notices of job openings. 

34 - The Union shall have the exclusive right to the use of its assigned bulletin boards. 
In the event a dispute arises concerning the appropriateness of material posted on the 
Union Bulletin Boards, the President of the local Union will be advised by the Office of 
Employee Relations of the nature of the dispute and the notices or bulletins in question 
will be removed from the bulletin boards until the dispute is resolved.  

ARTICLE 11 - SENIORITY DEFINED  

35 - Seniority shall be on a bargaining unit-wide basis in accordance with the 
employee's last date of hire in Local 999 unless negotiated locally by occupational 
groups.  

36 - "Length of continuous service" means uninterrupted employment with the 
University, but includes layoffs and other periods of absence authorized by and 
consistent with this Agreement except as limited by the section designated as "Loss of 
Seniority," Article 14 of this Agreement.  

ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY  

A. Probationary Employees  

37 - New employees hired in the unit shall be considered as probationary employees for 
the first 1040 hours of work. When an employee finishes the probationary period, 
he/she shall be entered on the seniority list of the occupational group and shall rank for 
seniority from the date the probationary period began. There shall be no seniority 
among probationary employees.  

38 - The Union shall represent probationary employees for the purposes of collective 
bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions 
of employment, except discharge or discipline for reasons other than Union activity.  

B. Part-time Employees  

39 - Employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours per week but less than 
twenty-six (26) hours per week shall be considered half-time (1/2) time employees; 
those regularly scheduled to work more than twenty-six (26) hours per week but less 
than thirty-six (36) hours per week shall be considered three-quarter (3/4) time 
employees; and those regularly scheduled to work thirty-six (36) hours per week to forty 
(40) hours per week shall be considered full-time employees.  

40 - Benefits to part-time employees - The following benefits shall be extended to part-
time employees on a proportional basis: vacation time, holidays, personal leave, sick 
leave, longevity, funeral leave, health, dental, employee paid life, accidental death and 
dismemberment, and retirement contribution if the employee participates. (See 
definition of proportional benefits.)  

41 - Seniority - Part-time employees shall retain seniority on the same basis as full-time 
employees. This seniority shall be exercised during periods of layoffs, recall, and for 
filling of vacancies.  

ARTICLE 13 - SENIORITY LISTS  

42 - The seniority lists on the date of this Agreement will show the names of all 
employees of the unit entitled to a ranking for seniority. Service records in effect at the 
date of this agreement shall be used by the parties hereto as the records of continuous 
service as of such date.  

43 - The Employer will keep the seniority lists up to date at all times, and whenever a 
Steward shall raise a question of seniority, shall make the seniority list available for 
his/her inspection for the purpose of settling the question. The Employer will, if 
requested by the Union, post corrected seniority lists every three (3) months.  

44 - Within thirty (30) days after the ratification of this Agreement and every three (3) 
months thereafter during the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall give to the 
Union the names of all Union members covered by the Agreement together with their 
addresses as they then appear on the records of the Employer. The Union shall receive 
and retain such information in confidence and shall disclose it only to those officials of 
the Union whose Union duties require them to have such information.  

ARTICLE 14 - LOSS OF SENIORITY  

45 - An employee shall lose his/her status as an employee and his/her seniority if:  

a. He/She resigns or quits.  

b. He/She is discharged or terminated (unless reversed through the grievance or 
arbitration procedures).  

c. He/She retires.  

d. He/She does not return to work from layoff within fourteen calendar days after 
having been notified to return by restricted certified or registered mail addressed 
to the employee at his/her last address filed with the Office of Human Resource 
Services except when failure to notify and work is due to circumstances beyond 
the control of the employee. An employee who changes address must notify the 
Employer of the change.  

e. He/She has been on layoff for a period of time equal to his/her unit seniority at 
the time of his/her layoff or two (2) years, whichever is lesser.  

f. He/She is absent from work, including the failure to return to work at the 
expiration of a leave of absence, vacation, or disciplinary layoff, for three (3) 
consecutive working days without notifying the Employer, except when the 
failure to notify and work is due to circumstances beyond the control of the 
employee. 

46 - A grievance involving compliance with this section shall begin at Step Three of the 
Grievance Procedure.  

ARTICLE 15 - SENIORITY OF STEWARDS  

47 - Notwithstanding their position on the seniority list, Stewards shall in the event of a 
layoff of any type be continued at work as long as there is work in their district which 
they can perform and shall be recalled to work in the event of a layoff to the first 
vacancy in their district which they can perform.  

ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY OF OFFICERS  

48 - Notwithstanding their position on the seniority list, the President, Vice President, 
Financial Secretary, Recording Secretary and Chief Steward of the Union shall, in the 
event of a layoff only, be continued to work at all times when one or more districts or 
divisions or fractions thereof are at work, provided they can perform any of the work 
available.  

ARTICLE 17 - SHIFT PREFERENCE  

49 - Shift preference will be granted on the basis of seniority within the classification as 
openings occur. The transfer to the desired shift will be effected within two (2) weeks 
following the end of the current pay period within which a written request is made, 
provided the employee can do the work.  

ARTICLE 18 - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  

A. Time of Answers  

50 - The Employer will answer in writing any grievance presented to it in writing by the 
Union as indicated below, unless the time is extended by mutual agreement:  

a. By the District Supervisor within five (5) working days from the date of the 
meeting at which the grievance was discussed.  

b. By the Administrative Head of a unit or division within seven (7) working days 
from the date of the meeting at which the grievance was discussed.  

c. By the Director of Employee Relations or his/her designated representative 
within seven (7) working days from the date of the meeting at which the 
grievance was discussed.  

d. The grievance must be presented in writing by the Chief Steward to the 
Administrative Head of a unit or division within fifteen (15) working days after its 
occurrence, except as provided for in Paragraph 67, in order to be a proper 
matter for the grievance procedure. 

B. Time of Appeals  

51 - Any grievance not appealed from an answer at Step II of the grievance procedure 
to Step III of the grievance procedure within seven (7) working days after such answer 
shall be considered settled on the basis of the last answer and not subject to further 
review.  

52 - A grievance may be withdrawn without prejudice, and, if so withdrawn, all financial 
liabilities shall be cancelled. If the grievance is reinstated, the financial liability shall date 
only from the date of reinstatement. If the grievance is not reinstated within three (3) 
months from the date of withdrawal, the grievance shall not be reinstated. Where one or 
more grievances involve a similar issue, those grievances may be withdrawn without 
prejudice pending the disposition of the appeal of a representative case. In such event, 
the withdrawal without prejudice will not affect financial liability.  

ARTICLE 19 - PRESENTING A GRIEVANCE  

53 - Any employee having a grievance in connection with his/her employment shall 
present it to the Employer as follows:  

A. Oral Step  

54 - If an employee feels he/she has a grievance and wishes to enter it into the 
grievance procedure, he/she may discuss it with his/her Immediate Supervisor, or with 
his/her District Steward, who must then discuss it with the employee's immediate 
Supervisor before the grievance is referred to the District Supervisor. The Chief Steward 
may be present at any step or steps of the Grievance Procedure as well as an 
additional representative of the Employer, and if the Employer, requests that the 
aggrieved employee be present at any step or steps of the Grievance Procedure to 
participate in the discussion, he/she will be required to do so.  

55 - If the matter is thereby not resolved, the District Steward may discuss the grievance 
with the District Supervisor on his/her shift. In the absence of a District Supervisor on 
his/her shift, the District Steward may refer the grievance to the appropriate day shift 
District Steward who may discuss the matter with the District Supervisor.  

B. Step I  

56 - If the grievance is not resolved, the District Steward may reduce the grievance to 
writing and submit it to the District Supervisor on his/her shift. The grievance shall be 
dated and signed by the aggrieved employee and his/her District Steward and shall set 
forth the facts, including dates, and provisions of the Agreement that are alleged to have 
been violated and the remedy desired. The grievance shall not be considered submitted 
until the District Supervisor receives the written grievance. A meeting will be arranged 
between the District Steward and the District supervisor to discuss the grievance. The 
District Supervisor will then answer the grievance in writing.  

C. Step II  

57 - If the grievance is not resolved, the District Steward may refer the grievance to the 
Chief Steward who may submit it to the Administrative Head, or his/her designated 
representative of the unit or division, indicating the reasons why the written answer of 
the District Supervisor was unsatisfactory. The grievance shall not be considered 
submitted until the Administrative Head, or his/her designated representative, receives 
the written grievance. A meeting will be scheduled, within ten (10) working days from 
the date on which the written grievance was submitted, between the Chief Steward, 
District Steward and the representatives designated by the Employer to discuss the 

grievance. The Administrative Head, or his/her designated representative, will then 
answer the grievance in writing.  

D. Step III  

58 - If the Administrative Head's answer is not satisfactory, the grievance may be 
referred to the Union President who may submit his/her appeal to the Employer's 
designated representative indicating the reasons why the written answer of the 
Administrative Head was unsatisfactory. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of 
such appeal, a meeting between no more than three (3) representatives of the Union 
and three (3) representatives designated by the Employer will be scheduled to discuss 
the grievance.  

59 - The Union representatives may meet at a place designated by the Employer on the 
Employer's property for at least one-half (1/2) hour immediately preceding a meeting 
with the representatives of the Employer for which a written request has been made.  

60 - The Union President or his/her representative shall be allowed time off his/her job 
without loss of pay to investigate a grievance he/she is to discuss or has discussed with 
the Employer, upon having received permission from his/her Supervisor to do so. The 
Supervisor will normally grant permission and provide sufficient time to the Union 
President or his/her representative to leave his/her work for these purposes subject to 
necessary emergency exceptions. The privilege of the Union President or his/her 
representative leaving his/her work during working hours without loss of time or pay is 
subject to the understanding that the time will be devoted to the proper handling of 
grievances and will not be abused; and the Union President or his/her representative 
will perform his/her regularly assigned work at all times, except when necessary to leave 
his/her work to handle grievances as provided herein. The Union President or his/her 
representative shall schedule this time within the release time provided in Article 35 
unless additional time is authorized by the Office of Employee Relations. Any alleged 
abuse by either party will be a proper subject for a Special Conference.  

E. Step IV  

61 - In the event the Office of Employee Relations' answer is not satisfactory, settlement 
may be determined by decision of the Arbitrator selected by the parties. The Union 
President or the Employer shall within thirty (30) calendar days of the Step III answer 
notify the other party or his designated representative in writing that they wish to appeal 
the grievance to arbitration. In the event they cannot agree upon an Arbitrator within five 
(5) working days of the date of the appeal, the party appealing the grievance to 
arbitration shall within fifteen (15) working days thereafter file a Demand for Arbitration 
with the American Arbitration Association who shall select an Arbitrator and the 

Arbitrator shall establish a hearing date. In the event either party fails to appeal the 
grievance to arbitration within the specified time limit or the appealing party fails to file 
the Demand for Arbitration within the specified time limit, the grievance shall be 
considered settled based upon the last answer by the Employer's designated 
representative. The fees and approved expenses of the Arbitrator will be paid by the 
parties equally. The rules of the American Arbitration Association shall apply to all 
Arbitration hearings.  

62 - Grievances within the meaning of the grievance procedure and this arbitration 
clause shall consist only of disputes about the interpretation or alleged violations of the 
Agreement. The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to, or subtract from, or modify 
any of the terms of this Agreement, nor shall he/she substitute his/her discretion for that 
of the Employer or the Union where such discretion has been retained by the Employer 
or the Union, nor shall he/she exercise any responsibility or function of the Employer or 
the Union.  

63 - Finality of Decisions: There shall be no appeal from the Arbitrator's decision. Each 
such decision shall be final, and binding upon the Union and its members, the employee 
or employees involved, and the Employer. The Union will discourage any attempt of its 
members and will not encourage or cooperate with any of its members in any appeal to 
any Court or Labor Board from a decision of the Arbitrator.  

ARTICLE 20 - COMPUTATION OF BACK WAGES  

64 - No claim for back wages shall exceed the amount of wages the employee would 
otherwise have earned at his/her regular rate of pay.  

ARTICLE 21 - REPRIMAND, SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE  

65 - In the event of written reprimand, suspension or discharge the employee may 
request that the Steward of the District and/or the Chief Steward be present. The 
Employer will make available an area where the employee may discuss a suspension or 
discharge before he/she is required to leave the property of the Employer.  

A. Notice  

66 - The Employer agrees, upon the written reprimand, suspension or discharge of any 
employee, to notify promptly in writing the Steward in the district and a copy shall be 
mailed to the Union President. In the event that an employee is issued a verbal warning, 
there will be no "Notice of Non-Academic Disciplinary Action - Written Record of Verbal 
Warning" prepared.  

B. Appeal  

67 - Should the reprimanded, suspended, or discharged employee and the Steward 
consider the discipline to be excessive and without just cause, a grievance shall be 
submitted within five (5) regularly scheduled work days of the reprimand, suspension or 
discharge. A grievance over a reprimand shall be submitted by the Chief Steward to the 
Administrative Head (Step II), whereas a grievance over a suspension or discharge 
shall be submitted by the Union President to the Office of Employee Relations (Step III). 
The Office of Employee Relations will schedule a meeting with the Union within three (3) 
regularly scheduled working days from the receipt of the appeal and shall, within two (2) 
regularly scheduled working days after said meeting, provide the Union with a written 
answer to the appeal. Failure to submit a written grievance within the time limits shall 
constitute a waiver of all claims concerning such reprimand, suspension, or discharge.  

C. Use of Past Record  

68 - In imposing any discipline on a current charge, the Employer will not take into 
account any prior infractions of which the Employer had knowledge, that occurred more 
than two (2) years previously.  

ARTICLE 22 - MEDICAL DISPUTE  

69 - In the event of a dispute involving any employee's physical ability to perform his/her 
job on his/her return to work at the University from a layoff or leave of absence of any 
kind, when the employee is not satisfied with the determination of the University's 
physician, he/she may submit a report from a medical doctor of his/her own choosing 
and at his/her own expense. If the dispute still exists, at the request of the Union, within 
2 working days, the University's physician and the employee's physician shall agree 
upon a third medical doctor to submit a report to the Employer and the employee, and 
the decision of such third party will be binding on both parties. The expense of the 
report of the third party shall be shared equally by the Employer and the employee. The 
prevailing determination will be effective at a date mutually agreed to by the Union and 
the University.  

ARTICLE 23 -TEMPORARY LAYOFFS  

70 - Due to vacation periods and conditions beyond the Employer's control, adjustments 
of the work force can be made without application of the layoff procedure of this 
Agreement. If such temporary adjustment continues for more than ten (10) working 
days, the Union can request the Employer to adjust the working force according to the 
layoff provision of the Agreement and the Employer will do so within five (5) working 
days thereafter.  

ARTICLE 24 - LAYOFFS  

71 - When there is a decrease in the work force, the following procedure shall be 
followed: temporary and probationary employees will be laid off within the affected 
classification, provided the seniority employees can do the available work.  

72 - Seniority employees will be laid off according to unit seniority, within the affected 
classification, provided the greater seniority employees are able to perform the available 
work. However, the Employer shall not be required to promote an employee at time of 
layoffs, unless he/she has previously performed the higher-rated job and is able to do 
the work.  

73 - A seniority employee laid off as provided for in Paragraph 72 may then bump a less 
senior employee in another classification in the same pay grade, within the same 
occupational group, provided he/she has the ability to perform the available work and so 
on to classifications in lower pay grades, providing he/she has the ability to perform the 
available work.  

a. Where there is a dispute over ability to do the work the employee shall, prior 
to the layoff date and with documentation of prior education and/or experience 
applicable to the position and satisfactory to the Employer, be given one trial 
period of up to 10 working days in which to demonstrate competency to fill that 
position.  

b. The phrase "satisfactory to the Employer" shall mean the Employer may make 
an initial determination as to an employee's prior education and/or experience 
being applicable to the available position. If a dispute exists over the Employer's 
initial determination, the factual applicability of prior education and/or experience 
to the position shall be determined through the grievance procedure.  

c. A seniority employee who is given notice of layoff and after exhausting all 
available bump options within her/his occupational group without success, will be 
eligible to exercise the following option. The employee may bump the Trades 
Helper with the least seniority in another occupational group if she/he can 
perform the duties performed by the employee subject to the bump. If the 
Employer determines that the employee cannot satisfactorily perform the duties 
of a Trades Helper I, that determination will be grievable under Article 19 of the 
Agreement. If the position to be bumped is that of a Trades Helper II and the 
employee is determined not to be able to perform the duties, a grievance may be 
filed and processed through the first three steps of the grievance procedure. 
However, the grievance shall not be appealable to step IV of the grievance 
procedure, which is arbitration. 

74 - Employees to be laid off for an indefinite period of time will have at least fourteen 
(14) calendar days notice of layoff. The local Union Secretary and the District Steward 
will receive a list from the Employer of the employees being laid off on the same date 
the notices are issued to the employees.  

75 - Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shall 
accumulate during layoffs. Provided however, that during a layoff, an employee will not 
accrue vacation or sick leave nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provided 
by this Agreement, except as otherwise provided for by this Agreement.  

76 - In the event of a dispute over a senior employee's ability to do the work as 
described in paragraphs 71, 72, and 73, the Union may file a grievance at Step 2 of the 
grievance procedure.  

ARTICLE 25 - ASSIGNMENT OF SKILLED TRADES EMPLOYEES  

77 - Employees covered by this Agreement may be assigned to other tasks during 
certain times without an increase or decrease in their regular rate of pay because of 
lack of available work in their specific classification. Should the need for a temporary 
reassignment arise, it will be handled in the following manner.  

a. The Employer will ask for volunteers from the affected classification who 
would be willing to be reassigned on a temporary basis.  

b. Should there be an insufficient number of volunteers, the requisite number of 
employees will be reassigned based on the least senior employees within the 
classification who can perform the work to be assigned.  

c. If there is a dispute as to whether the least senior employee can perform the 
work, the Union may call for a special conference which must be held before the 
employee is reassigned. 

78 - The Employer will make every effort to give reasonable notice to employees who 
are to be temporarily assigned.  

79 - It is understood that the above provision does not guarantee twelve months 
employment each year to any employee but is merely a sincere effort on the part of the 
Employer to utilize the talents and services of regular full-time employees during 
normally slow periods.  

ARTICLE 26 - RECALL PROCEDURE  

80 - When the working force is increased after a layoff, employees will be recalled 
according to unit seniority in the classification provided the greater seniority employees 
are able to perform the available work. However, the Employer shall not be required to 
promote an employee at time of recall unless he/she has previously performed the 
higher-rated job and is able to do the work.  

81 - Seniority of an employee who is reemployed from a seniority list in the same 
occupational group that he/she was laid off from shall have status restored as of the 
date he/she left the service of the Employer.  

82 - Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee at his/her last known address by 
registered or certified mail. A copy of the notice of recall will be mailed to the Union 
President and another copy will be placed in the Union's mailbox at the Office of 
Employee Relations. If an employee fails to report for work within fourteen (14) calendar 
days from the date of mailing the notice of recall, it shall be considered a voluntary 
termination.  

ARTICLE 27 - WORK OPPORTUNITY FOR LAID-OFF EMPLOYEES  

83 - The Employer will, in employing new people in any occupational group, give work 
opportunity bargaining unit-wide to employees with seniority who are at the time laid off 
and are not expected to be returned to work in their classification, and who can perform 
the work of the vacant position.  

84 - An employee with seniority who is laid off and given work in another occupational 
group will be given seniority in the new occupational group equivalent to that which 
he/she had accrued in the occupational group from which he/she was laid off.  

85 - The laid off employee shall retain seniority rights in his/her former occupational 
group until his/her accrued seniority in his/her new occupational group equals the 
seniority he/she had in his/her former occupational group at which time all of his/her 
seniority in his/her former occupational group shall be cancelled. If the employee 
exercises his/her seniority rights and returns to his/her former occupational group prior 
to the cancellation of seniority, he/she shall do so with all accumulated seniority.  

ARTICLE 28 - ABSENCES  

86 - An employee is expected not to be absent from work for any reason other than 
personal illness without making prior arrangements before the start of the shift with the 
supervisor. Unless such prior arrangements are made, notice must be given to the 
supervisor immediately of the reason for being absent. If the absence is to continue 
beyond the first day, the supervisor must be notified on a daily basis, unless otherwise 

arranged with and specifically approved by the supervisor. The employee is responsible 
to notify the supervisor in situations as described above. When notice is provided by 
someone other than the employee, the employee will be held accountable for the 
message and the receipt of the supervisor's response. Each employee will be given a 
telephone number in order to notify their supervisor if they are going to be absent. If a 
dispute arises as to whether the employee contacted the supervisor, in the first dispute, 
the employee will be given the benefit of the doubt.  

ARTICLE 29 - HOLIDAY PROVISIONS  

87 - The paid holidays are designated as:  
   

  

1999/2000  2000/2001  2001/2002 

Independence Day 
Labor Day 
Thanksgiving 
Thanksgiving 
Christmas 
Christmas 
New Year's 
New Year's 
Memorial Day 

July 5 

September 6 
November 25 
November 26 
December 24 
December 27 
December 31 

January 3 
May 29 

July 4 

September 4 
November 23 
November 24 
December 25 
December 26 

January 1 
January 2 
May 28 

July 4 

September 3 
November 22 
November 23 
December 24 
December 25 
December 31 

January 1 
May 27 

88 - Whenever one of these holidays falls on a Saturday and the employee does not 
work on this day or on a scheduled day off in the employee's work week and no other 
day is observed as a holiday by the Employer, the employee will receive an alternate 
day off with pay, the time to be arranged with his/her Supervisor. Whenever one of the 
above holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the 
designated holiday, except for the day before or after Christmas and the day before or 
after New Year's which shall be considered separately each year.  

89 - If an employee is absent on either his/her scheduled working day immediately 
preceding or his/her scheduled working day immediately following the holiday, he/she 
will not be paid for the holiday unless his/her absence is excused. However, if an 
employee is laid off for the period between the end of fall semester and the beginning of 
spring semester because of lack of work, he/she will receive the same holiday pay given 
to the rest of the employees.  

90 - If an employee terminates his/her employment, he/she will not receive pay for 
holidays occurring after the last day worked even though the holidays may fall within the 
period of his/her projected terminal vacation leave (except when an employee retires).  

91 - Employees who regularly work at least twenty (20) hours per week on a continuous 
basis will be entitled to holiday benefits proportionate to the time actually employed.  

92 - Employees who are required to work on any University designated holiday shall be 
paid at a rate of one and one-half (1/2) times their regular rate of pay plus holiday pay. 
An employee shall not receive more than two and one-half (2 1/2) times his/her regular 
rate of pay for hours worked on a holiday.  

93 - An employee who is on vacation or sickness and disability leave with pay when a 
holiday occurs will be paid for the holiday and no charge will be made against accrued 
vacation or sick leave credits.  

94 - There will be no holiday pay when the employee is on a leave of absence without 
pay, on layoff, or on Regular Workers' Compensation.  

ARTICLE 30 - VACATIONS  

95 - Vacations with pay shall be credited at the end of each month based on an 
employee's length of continuous full-time employment as shown in the following plan: 
(For part-time employees see Article 12 B).  
   

Service 
Months 
Completion of   
6 months 
7th month 
through   
60th month 
61st through   
120th month 

121st month 

Accrual 

Annual 
Accrual 

Maximum 
Accrual 

48 hrs 

  

  

8 hours/month 

96 hours 

120 hours 

12 

hours/month 

16 

hours/month 

144 hours 

180 hours 

180 hours 

240 hours 

96 - Employees are expected to take their annual accrual each year. When this is not 
feasible, he/she may make arrangements with his/her Immediate Supervisor or 

Departmental Administrator to accrue additional time but in no circumstances will the 
accrual exceed the amount shown in the schedule under Maximum Accrual.  

97 - Vacation will not accrue during an approved leave of absence without pay, while on 
regular Workers' Compensation, during an extended military leave of absence, during a 
terminal vacation period preceding termination, in excess of the Maximum Accrual, or 
while on layoff.  

98 - An employee's vacation pay will be based on his/her base rate of pay.  

99 - If a University designated holiday falls within an employee's vacation, he/she will be 
paid for the holiday and will not be charged for the vacation. When an employee 
terminates, he/she shall be paid for any unused vacation but will not be paid for 
University designated holidays which may fall within the terminal vacation period.  

100 - An approved leave of absence for military service will not be counted as a break in 
the employee's service record when determining his/her vacation allowance under the 
progressive vacation plan. All other leaves of absence will be considered a break in an 
employee's service record in determining vacation allowances.  

101 - An employee may take his/her vacation at any time in the course of the year as 
long as it conforms with the requirements of his/her individual department and he/she 
has permission from his/her supervisor. A vacation should not be taken for less than 
one week at a time, but it is permissible for an employee to vary his/her schedule if it is 
approved by his/her Supervisor. An employee should consult with his/her Supervisor at 
an appropriate time each year concerning his/her vacation allowance and the time the 
employee wishes it to be scheduled. Supervisory approval should be sought a minimum 
of one (1) working day prior to the desired time off. In the event of illness in the 
immediate family, an employee may use accrued vacation time subject to other 
provisions of this article. Employee vacation time may be taken in one (1) hour 
increments.  

102 - Employees who regularly work at least twenty (20) hours per week on a 
continuous basis will be entitled to vacation benefits proportionate to the time actually 
employed.  

103 - In the event of a dispute regarding the choice of vacation time, whenever possible 
the seniority employee will be given his/her choice of vacation time.  

104 - The following schedule will be used when the hire date, or any changes such as a 
return from leave of absence, necessitate prorating the hourly accrual for any portion of 
a month.  

A. Entering Date  
   

Days of 

the 
month  

  

1st 
through 
7th 
8th 
through 
14th 
15th 
through 
21st 
22nd 
through   
end of 
month 

7th month 
through 60th 

month (8 
hrs/month) 

61st month 

through 120th 

month (12 

hours/month) 

121st month (16 
hours/month)  

  

8 hours 

12 hours 

16 hours 

6 hours 

9 hours 

11 hours 15 

minutes 

4 hours 

6 hours 

7 hours 30 minutes 

2 hours  

  

3 hours  

  

3 hours 45 minutes  

  

B.  Exiting Date  
   

Days of the 

 (8 

(12 

month 

hrs/month) 

hours/month) 

1st through 7th 
8th through 14th 

15th through 21st 

22nd through   
end of month 

2 hours 
4 hours 

6 hours 

8 hours  

  

3 hours 
6 hours 

9 hours 

12 hours  

  

(16 

hours/month) 
3 hours 45 minutes 
7 hours 30 minutes 

11 hours 15 

minutes 
16 hours  

  

105 - The employer is responsible for keeping the records of each employee's vacation 
account up to date. Upon request and within a reasonable period of time, the employee 
shall be informed of the number of vacation credits remaining in his/her account.  

106 - Vacation credits shall not be waived by an employee and additional pay received 
for working those days.  

ARTICLE 31 - PERSONAL LEAVE HOURS  

107 - Personal leave with pay is granted to regular employees with the approval of their 
supervisors for attending to personal matters. Leave is given during each fiscal year in 
accordance with the following schedule:  
   

Employed   Hours 
7/1 - 12/31 
1/1 - 3/31 
4/1 - 5/31 
6/1 - 6/30 

24 
12 
6 
0 

108 - The personal leave hours credited to each employee shall be utilized and charged 
in increments of not less than one (1) full hour.  

109 - No carry-over of unused personal leave hours credit from one fiscal year to 
another shall be allowed, nor any payoff upon termination of employment.  

110 - An employee terminating prior to January 1 shall only be eligible for one-half of 
the annual personal leave accrual, to be adjusted on the employee's final payroll check.  

111 - The employee shall obtain the approval of the supervisor for the use of personal 
leave. The request for use of personal leave should be made at least one working day 
prior to the day off.  

ARTICLE 32 - SICK LEAVE  

112 - Every regular full-time employee shall accumulate and be credited with 104 hours 
of sick leave with pay per year, to be credited at the rate of four (4) hours each 
completed biweekly payroll period. Employees may use sick leave after they have 
completed their first month of service. Maximum accrual is 1200 hours.  

113 - Sick leave shall be available for use by employees for the following purposes:  

a. Acute personal illness or incapacity over which the employee has no 
reasonable control.  

b. Absence from work because of exposure to contagious disease which, 
according to public health standards, would constitute a danger to the health of 
others by the employee's attendance at work.  

c. To complete appointments for medical and dental care to the extent of time 
required to complete such appointments when it is not possible to arrange such 
appointments for non-duty hours.  

d. Not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours sick leave per year for absence from 
work because of illness in the immediate family. Defined as: spouse, children, 
parents and anyone living within the household of the employee. An additional 
forty (40) hours may be used for the care of spouse, parents and dependent 
children. The total number of hours shall not exceed sixty-four (64). 

114 - All employees shall accumulate sick leave from the date they are hired.  

115 - A regular employee with ninety (90) days of continuous service who suffers injury 
compensable under the Workers' Compensation Act shall continue to receive his/her 
regular rate of pay for time lost during the first seven (7) days not covered by the 
Workers' Compensation Act, provided he/she follows the instructions of the University 
Physician, and provided he/she returns to work not later than the time recommended by 
the University Physician. In the event of dispute, the Medical Dispute clause of this 
Agreement shall apply as regards the settlement of such dispute. Following the first 
seven (7) days, such seniority employee shall be paid the difference between his 
regular wages and payment received under provisions of the Act, to be deducted from 
accumulated sick leave until his sick leave is exhausted.  

116 - Employees who have exhausted their sick leave accrual and are still unable to 
return to work may use any unused vacation accrual.  

117 - Employees who are laid off shall have available any unused sick leave previously 
earned, effective at the time they are recalled.  

118 - Employees who leave to enter the Armed Forces of the United States under the 
provisions of a selective service act, who are members of the Armed Forces and are 
called to active duty, or who enlist in the Armed Forces during a declared national 
emergency shall, upon reemployment by the Employer, have available any unused sick 
leave previously earned, provided that such reemployment takes place within ninety 
(90) days after discharge or release from active duty in the Armed Forces.  

119 - An employee using sick leave during a period that includes a scheduled holiday 
will be paid his/her base pay for the holiday. He cannot be paid for both on the same 
day, nor will he be charged for a day of sick leave.  

120 - An employee who transfers from one unit to another shall transfer with him/her 
any unused sick leave accrual.  

121 - Employees who regularly work at least twenty (20) hours per week on a 
continuous basis will be entitled to sick leave benefits proportionate to the time actually 
employed. (See definition of proportional benefits.)  

122 - Each District Supervisor shall be responsible for reviewing employee requests for 
sick leave and determining their validity, and may request a statement from the 
employee's personal physician concerning his/her disability. Supervisors shall be given 
prompt notification from their employees of the necessity for taking sick leave. 
Employees who find they are going to be absent longer than they first anticipated 
should notify their Supervisor in accordance with the Absences clause of the Agreement 
(Article 28).  

123 - All payment for sick leave shall be made at the employee's base rate of pay.  

124 - Accrued sick leave credits shall be used prior to receiving unpaid leave.  

ARTICLE 33 - FUNERAL LEAVE  

125 - If death occurs among members of a regular employee's immediate family, the 
employee will be excused from work to attend the funeral and make other necessary 
arrangements without loss of pay from the day of death until the day after the funeral, 
but not more than a total of three (3) days. In the case of death of the employee's or 
spouse's uncle, aunt, nephew or niece, the employee will be excused from work without 
loss of pay for one (1) day (the day of the funeral) to attend the funeral.  

126 - Definition of Employee's Immediate Family  

The employee's immediate family shall be interpreted as including: spouse, child, 
parent, sister, brother, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, 
daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchild, 
stepparents, half-brother, half-sister, stepbrother and stepsister.  

127 - Permission will be granted without loss of pay to a reasonable number of 
employees in the unit who wish to attend the funeral of a fellow employee or retiree, 
provided they return to work after the funeral. Employees who serve as pallbearers at a 
funeral of a fellow employee or retiree will be paid during the time they must be off the 
job.  

128 - Additional time, if required, may be granted in accordance with other leave 
policies.  

ARTICLE 34 - JURY DUTY  

129 - A regular employee who serves on Jury Duty or is required to testify pursuant to a 
court issued subpoena, except those subpoenas requiring testimony against the 
University, will be paid the difference between Jury Duty or witness fees and his/her 
base pay. An employee is expected to report for regular University duty when 
temporarily excused from attendance at court.  

130 - An employee shall notify his/her supervisor of Jury Duty and subpoena dates as 
soon as they are known.  

ARTICLE 35 - PAID UNION LEAVE/RELEASE TIME  

131 - Leaves of absence with pay will be granted to those employees who are elected 
or selected by the Union to attend educational classes conducted by the Union. The 
number will not exceed eight (8) employees at any one time and the number of working 
hours will not exceed a total of one hundred thirty-six (136) hours in any one (1) 
calendar year. The Union agrees to give the Office of Employee Relations as much 
advance notice as possible concerning such leaves of absence.  

132 - The Employer agrees to allow the President of the Union to be excused from work 
for up to twenty (20) hours per week, and the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union for up to 
six (6) hours per week, to conduct Union business.  

133 - The Employer agrees to allow the Chief Steward of the Union excused time from 
work for one (1) hour per week, cumulative to a maximum of four (4) hours at any one 
time to post Union bulletin boards. It is understood that this time is in addition to the time 
granted in Article 9 to handle grievances. Prior arrangements must be made with the 
employee's supervisor before leaving the job and such time will be spent on campus or 
in the East Lansing office.  

ARTICLE 36 - UNPAID LEAVES  

134 - Regular employees who have completed their probationary period are eligible for 
unpaid leave of absence. During a leave of absence without pay, an employee will not 
accrue vacation or sick leave nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provided 
by this Agreement.  

135 - Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shall 
accumulate during a leave of absence, and its extensions.  

136 - The employees must check with the Benefits Office about maintaining the 
employee group benefits for which they are eligible and enrolled during leave of 
absence subject to and consistent with these plans. All leaves of absence must be 

approved by the Supervisor, Administrative Head of the department, and the Office of 
Human Resource Services.  

137 - The Employer at its option and without cost to the employee, may require that a 
physician or physicians of its choosing examine the employee before returning him/her 
to active employment.  

138 - An employee returning from a leave of absence will be placed in his/her former 
classification unless the Employer's or the employee's circumstances have so changed 
as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so.  

A. PERSONAL LEAVE  

139 - Leaves of absence without pay for up to three (3) months may be granted upon 
the request of the employee for such reasons as settlement of an estate, serious illness 
of a member of the employee's family, child care, or an extended trip, but not for the 
purpose of obtaining employment elsewhere. Leaves of absence for like causes may be 
extended for additional three (3) month periods, but the total leave time shall not exceed 
one (1) year.  

B. LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR ILLNESS OR DISABILITY  

140 - If an employee has exhausted all paid sick leave and is still physically unable to 
perform his/her job, an illness or disability leave without pay for up to three (3) months 
may be granted. After the initial three (3) month period an extension of illness and 
disability leave without pay for up to a total of two (2) years may be granted.  

141 - When a leave of absence without pay is granted due to illness or disability which 
requires the services of a physician, then the employee must procure and have 
available for the MSU designated Health Facility a physician's transcript relative to the 
case before the employee reports to the MSU designated Health Facility for the required 
physical examination.  

C. MILITARY LEAVE - Extended Service  

142 - Upon application, a military leave of absence (without pay) will be granted to 
employees who are employed in other than temporary positions. This applies to 
employees who are inducted through a selective service system or voluntary enlistment, 
or if the employee is called through membership in the National Guard or reserve 
component into the Armed Forces of the United States. In order to be eligible to return 
to active employment, an employee returning from a military leave of absence must 

have an honorable discharge or certificate of honorable service and apply for 
reinstatement within ninety (90) days after release from duty.  

D. EDUCATIONAL LEAVE FOR VETERANS  

143 - Employees who are reinstated in accordance with the Universal Military Training 
Act, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations, will be granted leaves of 
absence for a period equal to their seniority, but not to exceed four (4) years (without 
pay) in order to attend school full time under applicable federal laws in effect on the date 
of this Agreement.  

E. LEAVE FOR UNION BUSINESS  

144 - Members of the Union elected to local Union positions or selected by the Union to 
do work which takes them from their employment with the Employer shall at the written 
request of the Union receive temporary leaves of absence without pay for periods not to 
exceed two (2) years or the term of office, whichever may be shorter.  

145 - If the member's position or work for which these leaves were granted is terminated 
for any reason, the Union shall within ten (10) calendar days notify the Employer in 
writing of the termination date. The member shall within the same ten (10) calendar day 
period advise the Employer in writing of his/her intent to return to the University and 
shall return to work within thirty (30) calendar days of the termination date or forfeit all 
rights of employment with the Employer.  

ARTICLE 37 - MILITARY LEAVE - Short Tours of Duty  

146 - Regular, full-time employees who belong to the National Guard, United States 
Reserve Corps, or other Federal or State military organizations, will be allowed the 
normal fifteen (15) calendar days leave of absence when ordered to active duty for 
training. In the event these same employees are ordered to active duty for the purpose 
of handling civil disorders, they will be allowed a maximum of ten (10) calendar days 
leave of absence during a fiscal year. The Employer will pay the difference between the 
employee's military pay and base pay, if his/her military pay is less. If the employee 
takes military leave during his/her vacation, he/she will receive full pay.  

ARTICLE 38 - GENERAL CONDITIONS  

Leave of Absence with Pay  

147 - Leaves of absence with pay shall be granted for purposes as described in Articles 
29 through 37.  

148 - An employee shall accrue sick leave credits and vacation credits during a leave of 
absence with pay, and University provided insurance benefits shall and employee 
optional benefits may continue for the duration of the leave.  

149 - All requests for leaves of absence shall be made with the employee's immediate 
supervisor.  

ARTICLE 39 - FILLING OF VACANCIES  

150 - The Employer will fill vacancies on a seniority basis first within the occupational 
group with employees who possess the minimum qualifications for the classification 
under consideration. If there are no qualified bidders or no bidders from within the 
occupational group, the Employer will select the most senior applicant in the bargaining 
unit who possesses the minimum qualifications of the classification. An unsatisfactory 
MSU employment record may be a proper per cause for denial of consideration for a 
vacancy.  

151 - Vacancies will be posted for a period of seven (7) calendar days in a conspicuous 
place in the employee's work areas. All postings will state the classification, rate of pay, 
starting time, shift, location, and minimum qualifications. A copy of the Position Vacancy 
Notice will be provided to the Union when it is available. Employees must apply for 
vacancies by submitting the Employee Request for Consideration for Support Staff 
Position Vacancy to the Office of Human Resource Services by the closing date 
specified on the Position Vacancy Notice.  

152 - Postings shall remain posted for seven (7) calendar days before the vacancy is 
filled. The Employer will notify the Union, in writing, of the name of the employee 
selected to fill a vacancy, stating his/her seniority date and title of the classification. 
Temporary transfers may be used, if necessary, during the posting period.  

153 - A vacancy may not be filled from a posting ninety (90) calendar days or more after 
the posting expiration date. The vacancy must be reposted if it is to be filled.  

154 - If it should become necessary in filling a vacancy to bypass an employee's 
seniority, reasons for denial shall be given in writing to such employee with a copy to 
the Steward of the district.  

155 - An employee who is promoted, transferred or demoted must satisfactorily 
complete a trial period of 520 hours of work. Prior to the expiration of this period, either 
the Employer or the employee may declare the trial period unsatisfactory, and the 
employee shall return to his/her former position at his/her former pay rate, classification, 
and shift. If the Employer determines an employee is unsatisfactory in the new position, 

notice and reasons shall be submitted to the employee in writing by the Employer with a 
copy to the Union. The matter may then become a proper subject for the grievance 
procedure.  

156 - During the trial period, employees will receive the regular rate of the job they are 
performing.  

157 - An employee who bids on a vacancy that is posted under this section and is 
subsequently selected and placed in the vacancy shall remain assigned to it for three 
(3) months following the 520 hours of work trial period before becoming eligible to bid 
on another posted vacancy.  

158 - If an employee is temporarily assigned to a job with a higher maximum rate, and 
he/she is capable of doing the job, he/she shall receive an increase of ten (10) cents per 
hour, or the starting rate, whichever is greater, but in no event shall he/she be paid 
more than the maximum rate of the job to which he/she is temporarily assigned. If the 
temporary assignment in a higher classification is for three (3) hours or more, the 
employee will receive the increase in pay for eight (8) hours. An employee who is 
assigned on a temporary basis to a job in a lower pay grade shall have his/her hourly 
pay rate maintained. This section shall not be used to circumvent the posting 
requirement as stated in this article.  

159 - If an employee is temporarily assigned to work as a supervisor for eight (8) 
consecutive hours or more, he/she shall receive, in addition to his/her regular pay, one 
dollar ($1.00) per hour differential compensation. Such differential compensation will not 
increase the hourly base rate.  

160 - The procedures for filling vacancies may be bypassed for the following situations:  

a. Employees drawing Workers' Compensation benefits for any position at their 
former or lower compensation grade levels, the duties of which they are able to 
perform, provided that during their absence they did not become subject to 
layoff.  

b. Former seniority employees who have filed for unemployment compensation. 

161 - The parties recognize the Employer's commitment to and program for Affirmative 
Action. To that end the parties agree to cooperate to the extent possible for the 
achievement of the Affirmative Action objective. When it is necessary to fill vacancies 
for Affirmative action purposes, such action must be proven under the provision of the 
Affirmative action plan of the Employer. The University and the Union will meet to 

discuss any problems associated with the filling of vacancies for affirmative action 
purposes. Following discussion, the action may be permitted.  

ARTICLE 40 - TRANSFERS  

162 - Transfer of Employees: If an employee with seniority is transferred from one 
occupational group to another occupational group, he/she will be given seniority in the 
new occupational group equivalent to that which he/she had accrued in the occupational 
group from which he/she is transferred at which time all of his/her seniority in his/her 
former occupational group shall be cancelled.  

163 - Effective July 1, 1975, an employee who is thereinafter transferred to a position 
under the Employer, not included in Local 999, shall accumulate seniority for the first 
180 days provided he/she returns to a Local 999 position during the said 180 day 
period. In the event the employee returns to a position in Local 999 after the initial 180 
day period, his/her seniority shall have been frozen as of the date he/she transferred out 
of Local 999 and shall accumulate additional seniority beginning on the date he/she 
returns to a position in Local 999.  

164 - Employees transferring under the above circumstances, TRANSFERS 
Paragraphs 162 and 163 shall retain all rights accrued for the purposes of any fringe 
benefits provided for in this Agreement.  

165 - If and when operations or divisions or fractions thereof are transferred from one 
location to another for a period of more than seven (7) calendar days, employees 
affected will be given the opportunity to transfer on the basis of seniority, desire and 
classification. Location exchange will be considered in such cases.  

166 - The Employer agrees that in any movement of work not covered above in 
TRANSFERS Paragraphs 162, 163, and 165, he/she will discuss the movements with 
the Union in order to provide for the protection of the seniority of the employees 
involved.  

ARTICLE 41 - CLASSIFICATION AND WAGES  

167 - Wages shall be paid in accordance with the Wage Schedule as set forth in 
Appendixes III, IV and V. All listed classifications and corresponding wage rates shall 
remain in effect for the term of the Agreement unless the job content of any 
classification is changed.  

168 - The Employer retains the right to eliminate, change and establish classifications. 
In the event a new classification is established or an existing classification is changed, 

the Employer shall place it in an existing pay grade in the Wage Schedule or in a new 
pay grade, on the basis of the relative value of the elements of the new or changed 
classification in comparison with the elements of existing classifications.  

169 - The following procedure will be used whenever a new or changed classification is 
placed in the Wage Schedule, as provided in Paragraph 168 of this article.  

a. The Employer will provide the Union with a written copy of the new or 
changed classification which shall describe the job content sufficiently to identify 
the classification.  

b. Upon receipt of the Employer's classification description, a reasonable 
number of representatives of the Union may meet with representatives of the 
Employer to discuss the new or changed classification and the placement in the 
Wage Schedule.  

c. If there is a disagreement with the placement in the Wage Schedule, a 
grievance concerning compliance with Paragraph 168 of this article may be 
processed through the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure, provided it is 
submitted in writing at Step III of the Grievance Procedure within seven (7) 
working days after the Union is afforded the opportunity to discuss the matter 
with the Employer. If such a grievance is processed through Arbitration, the 
Arbitrator shall have no power or authority to revise the classification, but only to 
determine whether the proper placement has been made in the Wage Schedule 
in accordance with Paragraph 168 of this article. 

ARTICLE 42 - WAGE RATE INCREASE PLAN  

A. Wage Rate  

170 - Effective July 1, 1999, the minimum and maximum of each grade level shall be 
adjusted as reflected in Appendix III. Each employee on the active payroll on that date 
shall have his/her base rate of pay increased by three (3) percent.  

171 - Effective July 1, 2000, the minimum and maximum of each grade level shall be 
adjusted as reflected in Appendix IV. Each employee on the active payroll on that date 
shall have his/her base rate of pay increased by three (3) percent.  

172 - Effective July 1, 2001, the minimum and maximum of each grade level shall be 
adjusted as reflected in Appendix V. Each employee on the active payroll on that date 
shall have his/her base rate of pay increased by one (1) percent.  

A one (1) percent lump sum (not in the base), of the July 2, 2001 base wages (hourly 
rate times 2080 hours), payment shall be made to all regular employees on the payroll 
as of June 30, 2001 as a one-time payment. Payment shall be made during the month 
of July, 2001.  

B. Movement Within Grade Levels  

173 - Effective July 1, 1975, a review will be made of all employees, except 
Apprentices, represented by Local 999 whose wage rate is not at the maximum of their 
current grade level. If an employee meets the following qualifications:  

a. Has been in their present classification for two (2) years or more.  

b. Has at least a satisfactory rating on each of their last two (2) Employee 
Evaluation rating form, that employee will receive an increase to bring their wage 
rate to the maximum of their current grade level. 

During the term of this Agreement, an employee whose wage rate is not at the 
maximum of their current grade level and who does not meet the qualifications as listed 
above, shall be:  

a. Reviewed on a semiannual basis and will be granted an increase based upon 
a satisfactory work record. Employees shall progress to the top of their current 
grade level at any time within a two (2) year period as provided above.  

b. Reviewed and upon meeting the qualifications as listed above, shall, effective 
the date of qualifications, receive an increase to bring their wage rate to the 
maximum of their current grade level. 

A written record of the date and the outcome of the review will be made.  

In no case will an increase exceed the maximum rate for the classification.  

ARTICLE 43 - WORKING HOURS  

A. Shift Differential  

174 - Employees who work on the second or third shift shall receive, in addition to their 
regular pay fifty (50) cents per hour additional compensation. Such differential is to be 
added to the total wages and does not increase the hourly rate and will be paid for all 
hours worked on a shift.  

B. Shift Hours  

175 - The first shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 5:00 a.m., but before 1:00 
p.m. The second shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 1:00 p.m. but before 
9:00 p.m. The third shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 9:00 p.m. but before 
5:00 a.m.  

C. Rest Periods  

176 - Employees may take a rest period of not more than fifteen (15) minutes for each 
half day of work. Rest periods should be taken at a time and in a manner that does not 
interfere with the efficiency of the work unit. The rest period is intended to be a recess to 
be preceded and followed by an extended work period; thus, it may not be used to 
cover an employee's late arrival to work or early departure, nor may it be regarded as 
accumulative if not taken.  

D. Wash-Up Time  

177 - Employees will be given the necessary time prior to punching out, to wash up and 
change uniforms, if used.  

E. Call-In Pay  

178 - An employee reporting for emergency duty at the Employer's request for work 
which he/she had not been notified of in advance and which is outside of and not 
continuous with his/her regular work period, shall be guaranteed at least three (3) hours 
pay and three (3) hours work at the rate of time-and one-half. An employee who reports 
for such emergency duty in the physical plant division which is of a minimum five (5) 
hours duration and which is continuous with his/her scheduled start time, shall receive a 
one (1) hour paid break prior to beginning scheduled work. An employee who reports for 
scheduled work and no work is available will receive three (3) hours pay at his/her 
regular straight time rate. Paragraph 178, Call-in Pay shall apply when an employee is 
contacted away from the workplace for unscheduled emergency duty. An employee 
contacted away from the work place and who begins work within three (3) hours of a 
regular shift starting time shall receive the full three hours call-in pay at time-and-one-
half.  

When an employee has arrived at the workplace for a regularly scheduled shift and is 
then assigned to begin work early, Paragraph 178 does not apply. If the employee is 
assigned to begin work early also completes the regular schedule of work in accordance 
with Paragraph 179 or Paragraph 182a, then the employee will be paid for actual time 
worked before the start of the regular shift at time-and-one-half, or a one-half-hour 
minimum at time-and-one-half, whichever is greater.  

F. Time-and One-Half  

179 - Time-and-one-half the regular rate of pay will be paid for all time worked in excess 
of eight (8) hours in an employee's work day. Time-and-one-half the regular rate of pay 
will be paid for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in an employee's work 
week.  

180 - For the purpose of computing overtime pay all hours paid will be considered time 
worked.  

181 - Overtime premium shall not be pyramided, compounded or paid twice for the 
same time worked.  

ARTICLE 44 - TIME-AND-ONE-HALF IN SEVEN-DAY OPERATIONS AND IN OTHER 
SPECIFIC AREAS OF WORK  

182 - The following provisions apply to seven-day operations and other specific areas of 
work within the work groups designated.  

a. Time-and-one-half the regular straight time rate will be paid to employees 
assigned to seven-day operations who work over forty (40) hours in a work 
week. It is further agreed that the above provision applies to the Swing Shift 
Maintenance Shop Trouble Trucks within the Physical Plant.  

b. Time-and-one-half the regular straight time rate will be paid to all employees 
classified in the bargaining unit in the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics who 
work over forty (40) hours in a work week. 

ARTICLE 45 - EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME HOURS  

183 - Overtime hours shall be divided as equally as practicable among employees in the 
same classifications in their district. An up-to-date list showing overtime hours will be 
posted in a prominent place in each district before the 15th of each month. Within the 
Physical Plant, overtime hours shall be divided as equally as practicable among 
employees in the same system numbers.  

184 - Whenever overtime is required, the person with the least number of overtime 
hours capable of performing the work reporting to that supervisor or, in the Physical 
Plant, within the same system number, will, except in necessary emergencies, be called 
first and so on down the list of those reporting to that supervisor or, in the Physical Plant 
within the same system number, in an attempt to equalize the overtime hours. The 
Union reserves the right to grieve what is an emergency. Employees reporting to other 

supervisors, or, in the Physical Plant, in other system numbers, may be called if there is 
a shortage of qualified employees reporting to the supervisor or the system number 
requiring the overtime. In such cases, they would be called on the basis of least hours 
of overtime, provided they are capable of performing the work.  

The Parties recognize in various units there are exceptions to the above procedure. 
Where currently exists, Project Teams groups, Service Routes and Subgroups, the 
following procedure will be followed:  

Employees regularly assigned to a Team Project, Service Route or Subgroup 
will be given the first opportunity to work the overtime. If there is not a sufficient 
number of employees from the Project Team, Service Route or Subgroup to 
perform the overtime work, the Supervisor will then go to the employees within 
that system number or reporting to that Supervisor. 

185 - For the purpose of this clause, an employee who did not choose to work will be 
charged the average number of overtime hours of the employees working during that 
overtime period (2 hour minimum). In the event of emergency call-in, only the person or 
persons actually contacted or report to perform the work will be charged the time. An 
employee who is unavailable will not be called for overtime work and will not be charged 
overtime hours.  

186 - On July 1 each year, the amount of overtime hours credited to each employee will 
be reduced equal to the amount of overtime hours credited to the employee at the 
bottom of the overtime list and only the excess overtime hours for each employee shall 
be carried forward.  

187 - Employees who have changed classifications will be charged with the highest 
number of overtime hours that exist in the new classifications on the day he/she was 
reclassified. Employees who, by reason of assignment change supervisors or, in the 
Physical Plant, system number, will carry their existing number of overtime hours with 
them to the new overtime list. New and transfer employees shall be given the same 
number of overtime hours as the employee with the highest number of hours on the 
overtime list, plus one hour.  

188 - The University and AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO mutually agree that there are 
peak periods and times of unanticipated demands in University Printing when the 
University must carry out its operations on an overtime basis. The peak periods in 
University Printing are 1) June 1 to July 1; 2) August 1 to September 15; 3) Four (4) 
weeks before the beginning of each semester. In those situations requiring overtime, 
the University shall use the following procedure:  

A. The Employer will provide, whenever possible, forty-eight (48) hours notice of the 
overtime work.  

B. The employee with the least number of overtime hours in the affected classification 
and work group will be offered the overtime first. If that employee declines, the overtime 
offer will be made to the employee with the next lowest number of overtime hours. If the 
overtime is declined by all qualified employees in the classification and work group, the 
least senior qualified employee will work the overtime.  

C. The overtime work will not exceed five consecutive days for any employee.  

ARTICLE 46 - LONGEVITY PAY  

189 - All regular employees of the Employer shall be entitled to receive longevity pay for 
length of continuous service with the Employer according to the following rules and 
schedule of payment.  

190 - LONGEVITY YEAR The longevity year is defined as the twelve month period 
beginning October 1 of each year and ending September 30. For longevity payment 
purposes only, a year of continuous full-time service is defined as any longevity year in 
which the employee is actively employed for at least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar 
days).  

191 - Longevity pay shall be computed as a percentage of the employee's regular 
annual base wage. Base wage shall be that wage which an employee is being paid on 
September 1 of the calendar year in which the longevity payment is due. The annual 
base wage shall be equal to the employee's hourly rate times 2080 hours as of 
September 1 of the calendar year. If an employee is not on the payroll at that time, the 
hourly rate to be used will be the hourly rate upon his/her return. Base wage shall not 
include overtime or premium pay.  

192 - INITIAL ELIGIBILITY The last date of hire as a regular employee will be used as 
the normal longevity date. To qualify for the first longevity payment, an employee must 
have completed six (6) years of continuous service as of October 1 of any year. To 
qualify for initial eligibility, the employee must have been on active employment for at 
least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) for six (6) consecutive years and an 
employee as of October 1 of that year to receive the longevity payment. Periods of 
active employment of less than 39 calendar weeks will be counted toward the 
employee's years of continuous service.  

193 - CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY After establishing initial eligibility, employees must be 
actively employed for 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) during the longevity year 

and an employee as of October 1 to receive the longevity payment on December 1. 
Periods of active employment of less than 39 calendar weeks, while not qualifying the 
employee for payment of longevity, shall be counted toward the employee's years of 
continuous service.  

194 - Payments to employees who are eligible each October 1 will be paid on 
December 1. No longevity payment as shown in the schedule below shall be made for 
that portion of an employee's regular wage which is in excess of $9,500.  

195 - All regular employees as of July 22, 1996 shall be "grandfathered" under the 
current Longevity Pay program. Employees who hire into the bargaining unit after July 
22, 1996, will be, and shall remain, ineligible for the Longevity Pay program.  

196 - Longevity Pay Schedule  
   

Continuous Service  

  

Annual   
Percentage 

6 or more and less than 10 years 
10 or more and less than 14 
years 
14 or more and less than 18 
years 
18 or more and less than 22 
years 
22 or more and less than 26 
years 
26 or more years 

2% 

3% 

4% 

5% 

6% 

8% 

ARTICLE 47 - HEALTH CARE COVERAGE  

197 - While an employee is on layoff, the Employer will make its normal contribution 
toward the cost of the Health plan premium for two (2) months beyond the month of 
separation due to layoff.  

198 - Regular employees may enroll for health coverage within sixty (60) days of their 
initial employment date. Effective July 1, 1994, the employee may enroll in Blue 
Cross/Blue Shield, Blue Care Network or Physicians Health Plan (HMO'S).  

199 - For a regular full-time employee with single, two-party, or family coverage, the 
Employer shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the total monthly premium cost of 

basic Blue Cross/Blue Shield coverage. The Employer contribution for three-quarter 
time employees will be seventy-five percent (75%) of the full-time contribution of the 
Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan and for one-half time employees will be fifty percent (50%) 
of the full-time contribution of the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Plan. In no event shall it 
exceed the full-time contribution for equivalent coverage. The monthly premium for 
dependents on sponsored dependent riders will be deducted from the employee's 
paycheck.  

200 - Effective June 30, 1996, employees enrolled in the Physician's Health Plan or 
Blue Care Network will assume a five (5) dollar "Point of Service" co-pay.  

201 - Effective June 30, 1996, employees enrolled in the Physician's Health Plan or 
Blue Care Network will assume a five (5) dollar prescription drug co-pay.  

202 - Effective June 30, 1997, employees enrolled in the Physician's Health Plan or 
Blue Care Network will assume a ten (10) dollar "Point of Service" co-pay.  

203 - Upon evidence of other health care coverage, employees eligible for MSU health 
care coverage are eligible to opt out of a MSU Health Care Plan each year during the 
May Health Care Plan Open Enrollment to become effective July 1 through June 30 of 
each year and receive a $600.00 lump-sum payment to be made in the month of July of 
the next plan year. Re-enrollment will be allowed during the year if proof of involuntary 
loss of other insurance coverage is provided within thirty-one days of loss of coverage, 
and at which time the individual would no longer be eligible for the lump-sum payment. 
(If the University should agree with any other bargaining unit to an opt-out lump-sum 
payment amount greater than $600.00, the Union may re-open the Agreement for 
negotiations on that issue only.)  

204 - Regular Local 999 employees will have a dental program.  

205 - A. Fees for the following services will be covered on usual, customary and 
reasonable basis with a 50% co-payment subject to a $600 annual maximum per 
individual. Services include basic diagnostic, preventative, emergency palliative, 
restorative, oral surgery, endodontics, periodontics, and prosthodontics. In addition 
orthodontics will be covered subject to a $600 lifetime maximum per individual. This 
program will be provided by an insurance carrier selected by MSU. These benefits will 
be provided consistent with the carrier's conditions and procedures.  

B. Regular Local 999 employees will have the option to select a managed care dental 
plan effective July 1, 1995. The program will be provided by a carrier selected by MSU. 
These benefits will be provided consistent with the carrier's condition and procedures.  

ARTICLE 48 - DISABILITY PLANS  

A. Extended Disability Plan  

206 - Eligibility - Regular full-time employees with at least sixty (60) continuous full-time 
equivalent service months are eligible for extended disability leave.  

207 - Usage - In cases which are expected to result in total disability, eligible employees 
will be granted extended disability leave with full pay and benefits for up to six (6) 
months from last day worked. This leave will include the aggregate of accumulated sick 
leave, vacation and personal leave to the extent these benefits are due the employee. 
This leave will be extended beyond six (6) months until all paid leave accruals have 
been exhausted.  

B. Long-Term Disability Plan  

208 - A University-paid Long-Term Disability Plan will be granted to all regular full-time 
employees with at least twelve (12) continuous full-time equivalent (FTE) service 
months.  

209 - After a minimum one hundred eighty (180) day disability waiting period, the LTD 
Program provides for a continuation of the monthly wage equal to sixty (60) percent of 
the monthly base rate of pay, up to a maximum benefit of $3,000.00 (including any 
offsets, e.g. benefits from Social Security or Workers' Compensation).  

210 - The LTD Program also pays the employee's 5% contribution and the University's 
10% contribution to the TIAA-CREF Retirement Program or other retirement programs 
made available through the University.  

211 - The LTD Program includes a 3% cost of living rider and a $50 per month minimum 
benefit. Benefits are payable as provided below:  
   

Disability 
Commences 
Less than 60 

60 but less than 65 

65 but less   
than 68 1/2 

Duration of 
Benefits 
To age 65 
4 1/2 years 
To age 70  

  

Age 68 1/2 or over 

1 year 

212 - At the Employer's expense, a disabled employee may continue to participate in 
the Employee Paid Life, dental and health care programs, if the employee is not on the 
active payroll.  

213 - For additional information, contact the Benefits Office.  

ARTICLE 49 - EMPLOYEE-PAID LIFE PLAN  

214 - The University will make available to regular full-time and part-time employees an 
optional life plan. The plan is entirely funded from employee premiums and rates are 
subject to future group experience. The plan is decreasing term with no cash or loan 
value and coverage may be selected in optional amounts depending upon age and the 
plan selected.  

ARTICLE 50 - EXPANDED LIFE PLAN  

215 - The Employer will provide, at no employee cost, a fully paid life plan to all regular 
full-time employees at the time of hire.  

216 - This program will provide a life plan in the case of death of an eligible employee 
on active duty status (including unpaid leaves of absence of 180 days or less) in 
accordance with the provisions of the program administered by the Human Resources 
Benefits Office.  

217 - The employee may designate a beneficiary if desired; if none is designated, the 
life insurance benefit payment will be made to the beneficiary under the Employee Paid 
Life Plan if enrolled; otherwise payment will be made in one sum to the survivors in the 
first surviving class of those that follow: Your a) spouse; b) children; c) parents; or d) 
brothers and sisters. If none, survivor's payment will be made in one sum to your estate.  

ARTICLE 51 - RETIREMENT BENEFITS  

A. University Retirement  

218 - University Retirement Defined - University retirement shall be defined as 1) 
attainment of age 62 or older with 15 years of employment, or 2) at any age with 25 
years of employment. Interruptions in employment of less than one (1) year's duration 
shall not constitute a break in service as it pertains to retirement.  

An employee returning after twelve (12) months of her/his termination from University 
employment shall, after five (5) additional years of employment, receive credit for all 
past seniority for the purpose of retirement only.  

With proper documentation, reemployed employees, after five (5) years of service, will 
be granted credit for all past seniority upon application to the Office of Human Resource 
Services.  

219 - Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible to 
maintain group health and dental coverage and receive the Employer contribution. 
Effective 12/1/79, new retirees and covered spouses will remain eligible to maintain the 
prescription drug rider. Employees participating in group life insurance at the time of 
retirement and who were enrolled prior to 7-1-77 shall receive a $2,000 University paid 
life insurance benefit.  

220 - An employee who retires under the definition in Paragraph 218 shall be paid for 
fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave, but not to exceed a maximum of fifty (50) 
percent of one thousand two hundred (1200) hours, as of the effective date of 
separation.  

221 - An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in 
Paragraph 218 but has at least five (5) years, but less than ten (10) years of continuous 
full-time service and has attained 65 years of age at the time of his/her separation shall 
be paid fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave as of the effective date of 
separation. An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in 
Paragraph 218 but has at least ten (10) years of continuous full-time service and has 
attained 65 years of age at the time of his/her separation shall be paid one hundred 
(100) percent of his/her unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation but not 
to exceed a maximum of one hundred (100) days unless he/she has received a 
University contribution to TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs made available 
through the University in which case he/she shall be paid as in Paragraph 220.  

222 - Prorated longevity payments shall be made to those employees who retire under 
the definition of University Retirement in Paragraph 218 prior to October first of any 
year. This also applies to those employees not under the definition of University 
Retirement in Paragraph 218 but who are 65 years of age at the time of their 
separation. Such prorated payments as indicated above shall be based on the number 
of calendar months of full-time service credited to an employee from the preceding 
October first to the date of retirement or separation and shall be made as soon as 
practicable thereafter.  

B. Base Retirement  

223 - Michigan State University provides a base retirement program with the Teachers 
Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA) and its companion organization, College 
Retirement Equities Fund (CREF), Fidelity Investments and the Vanguard Group or 

other retirement programs made available through the University and selected by the 
employee.  

224 - Eligibility and Participation - Regular full-time and part-time employees are eligible 
for participation in base retirement options through the University in accordance with the 
following policies:  

a. The program is optional to employees under age 35 or who are over age 62 at 
the time of employment.  

b. The program is required as a condition of employment for employees who 
have attained age 35.  

c. Once required participation commences, it is not possible to withdraw from the 
base retirement options while employed at the University. 

225 - Premium Contributions - The base retirement options made available through the 
University are financed by 5% reduction from employee base wage, overtime, and shift 
differential with the University contributing 10%.  

226 - It is further understood that the improved formula, contribution levels and method 
of benefit computation in addition to other provisions contained herein extend through 
the contract expiration date.  

227 - Complete details concerning the provisions of the University's base retirement 
options are outlined in a brochure which may be obtained from the Benefits Office.  

C. University Noncontributory Retirement Plan (UNCRP) (For employees hired prior to 
January 1, 1973)  

228 - The following provisions apply to those employees who meet the retirement 
definition described in Section A.  

229 - Effective January 1, 1973 the UNCRP ceased to exist. However, to ensure that no 
employee lost credit for prior years of service, the following guidelines were established 
to provide that an employee will receive no less than what an improved UNCRP formula 
would give him/her upon retirement.  

230 - Those persons employed prior to January 1, 1973, who were 55 years of age or 
older and/or had 25 years of service on January 1, 1973 could elect to remain subject to 
the improved UNCRP formula described below.  

231 - The formula governing the UNCRP was improved by basing pensions on an 
amount equal to the highest three (3) year average earnings, multiplied by 2% for each 
year of service, with a $3600 ceiling.  

232 - For employees participating in TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs 
made available through the University with a University contribution, the improved 
UNCRP formula will be calculated for each employee at retirement and will become the 
minimum received by the employee.  

233 - The annuity value at the time of retirement of MSU's contributions to TIAA-CREF 
and/or other retirement programs made available through the University will be 
compared to the pension amount as computed in Paragraph 231 above, and the 
employee will receive the larger of the two figures. Employee contributions to TIAA-
CREF and/or other retirement programs made available through the University 
(retroactive to 1-1-73) will provide additional annuity income.  

234 - Those employees not participating in TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs 
made available through the University will have their retirement figured solely on the 
improved UNCRP formula plus a 10% addition added to the base pension prior to 
actuarial reduction or the selection of a survivor option.  

235 - Employees who terminate without meeting the minimum requirements for 
retirement will receive an annuity income from the contributions made to the individual 
TIAA-CREF annuity contract or other retirement programs made available through the 
University consistent with provisions of other contracts.  

ARTICLE 52 - EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE  

A. Qualifications  

236 - The University provides assistance to enhance an employee's educational and 
career development needs and goals for regular full-time and part-time staff.  

237 - Tuition from an accredited educational institution will be reimbursed for up to 
fourteen (14) credits per MSU academic year upon successful completion of the 
course(s). A grade of 2.0 or better (or "CR" - credit) is required for a credit course.  

238 - Institutions under such government training programs as the G.I. Bill of Rights will 
also be accepted. Reimbursement for tuition at other institutions shall be no greater 
than the prevailing MSU resident lifelong education rates.  

239 - If the employee is covered by benefits such as scholarship or fellowship aid, 
government aid, GI benefits, or similar assistance, reimbursement will be made only for 
that portion of the tuition which exceeds the amount of those benefits.  

B. Release Time  

240 - When a course if not available during non-working hours, the employee may 
request release time with pay not to exceed five (5) hours per week to attend one 
course. The department administrator or designee shall determine whether unit 
functions will allow such release time to be granted. Such determination shall be within 
the sole discretion of the Employer.  

C. Eligibility  

241 - The benefits become effective if the first day of class commences after the 
employee has completed twelve (12) continuous full-time equivalent service months. 
The employee must have approval of his/her supervisor and/or department/unit 
administrator.  

242 - The employee must be admitted to the educational institution where the course 
work will be taken and must be employed full-time or part-time when course work is 
completed to be eligible for reimbursement. Employees who are laid off after a course(s) 
has begun will be eligible for reimbursement upon its completion.  

D. Tuition Reimbursement  

243 - To receive reimbursement for MSU courses, the employee shall submit the 
completed educational assistance form with departmental approval to Human Resource 
Development at least ten (10) days prior to the start of class. To receive reimbursement 
for non-MSU courses, the employee shall submit the completed educational assistance 
form with departmental approval to Human Resource Development at least ten (10) 
days prior to the start of class and send evidence that he/she has successfully 
completed the course within fifteen (15) days of the receipt or such evidence.  

244 - Reimbursement for the course(s) will be the MSU per credit tuition rate (not to 
exceed fourteen (14) per academic year), plus the MSU matriculation fees where 
applicable.  

E. Tuition Waiver  

245 - Bargaining unit members who are eligible for educational assistance shall be 
eligible for a tuition waiver program. This tuition waiver program will be applicable only 

to those MSU courses enrolled in through the University's standard registration 
procedure. As a condition of tuition waiver, an employee must sign an agreement 
authorizing payroll deduction for the amount of tuition waiver to be used in the event 
she/he does not successfully complete the course(s).  

246 - Employees interested in utilizing the tuition waiver program must submit their 
educational assistance application complete with departmental approval to Human 
Resource Development thirty (30) days prior to the semester billing date set by the Fees 
and Scholarship office. The application must be marked with a request for tuition waiver.  

247 - If the above timelines are met and the educational assistance application is 
approved, Human Resource Development will forward a list of employees eligible for 
tuition waiver to the Fees and Scholarship office and to the Union.  

248 - Employees will be responsible for all charges in excess of the matriculation fee 
and in excess of fourteen (14) credit hours over the academic year. Human Resource 
Development will supply the Fees and Scholarships office with the total credits available 
for tuition waiver for each eligible employee. In the event the approved course(s) is/are 
unavailable at the time of registration, other appropriate course(s) may be substituted 
and the application amended subject to the approval of the department administrator or 
designee and Human Resource Development.  

249 - Employees who have had their tuition waived authorize Human Resource 
Development to verify successful completion of approved courses at the end of the 
semester. In cases where tuition waivers are withdrawn (e.g. terminated employee, non-
approved course, unsuccessful completion), the University will attempt to payroll deduct 
the waiver tuition. If the University is unable to make collection through payroll 
deduction, the Union agrees to be responsible for the outstanding debt(s).  

F. Non-credit Courses  

250 - Employees may apply for reimbursement and release time for job-related, non-
credit courses which are offered through the University Outreach (e.g., Lifelong 
Education, Continuing Education and Evening College), MSU computing and 
technology training programs, Davenport College, Lansing Community College, and 
high school adult education programs, Human Resource Development programs or 
other Human Resource Development approved educational/training programs.  

251 - If non-credit courses only are being taken during an academic year, 
reimbursement will not exceed eight hundred ($800.00) dollars.  

252 - If non-credit courses are being taken during the same academic year as a course 
per paragraph 244 above, the total reimbursement will not exceed the MSU rate per 
credit for fourteen (14) credit hours.  

253 - Employees must document their successful completion of non-credit courses by 
submitting either (1) a certificate from the course signed by the instructor, or (2) a form 
provided by Human Resource Development signed by the instructor.  

G. Course Fee Courtesy  

254 - Full-time employees with 60 full-time equivalent service months are eligible under 
the course-fee courtesy policy as it is provided to the faculty of the University.  

ARTICLE 53 - ASSIGNMENT OF COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL 
RESOURCES EMPLOYEES  

255 - Time-and-one-half the regular straight-time rate will be paid to all employees in the 
bargaining unit who work over eighty (80) hours in any pay period of two (2) calendar 
weeks in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources.  

256 - The Employer will provide jobs for students to the end that impecunious 
youngsters may secure an education. Many students are employed in order to receive 
practical training as a part of their education. Therefore, the Employer's current policy 
with respect to the employment and assignment of students in the College of Agriculture 
and Natural Resources will be continued.  

257 - The University's current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of 
academic personnel, graduate students and students on research projects in the 
College of Agriculture and Natural Resources may spend up to thirty (30) percent of 
their time performing work outside of their supervisory duties in work related to research 
and special assignments in the bargaining unit.  

258 - Additionally, it is understood that, in emergency situations when regular 
employees are not immediately available, supervisory employees in the College of 
Agriculture and Natural Resources may be required to perform work within specific job 
classifications. The same thing is true when operational difficulties are encountered or in 
the testing of materials. Likewise, instruction or training of employees may well include 
demonstrating proper methods of accomplishing the tasks assigned and no dispute over 
the policy stated above shall be occasioned by such demonstration.  

259 - The Employer's current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of 
personnel to the cooperative training program in the Creamery in the College of 
Agriculture and Natural Resources will be continued.  

ARTICLE 54 - SUPERVISION WORKING  

260 - It is the policy of the Employer that foremen and supervisory employees shall not 
perform work in any job classification of the bargaining unit; however, it is understood 
that occasionally management personnel are required to perform manual tasks and, in 
those situations, the Union agrees there is no violation of the policy herein stated.  

261 - Additionally, it is understood that, in emergency situations when regular 
employees are not immediately available, supervisory employees may be required to 
perform work within specific job classifications. The same thing is true when operational 
difficulties are encountered or in the testing of materials. Likewise, instruction or training 
of employees may well include demonstrating proper methods of accomplishing the 
tasks assigned and no dispute over the policy stated above shall be occasioned by such 
demonstration.  

ARTICLE 55 - STUDENT LABOR  

262 - It is the policy of the Employer to provide jobs for students to assist them in 
obtaining an education. It is the intent of the Employer to use student employees to 
supplement the regular work force and not replace it.  

263 - The University agrees to provide at or about midpoint of each academic semester 
the following information concerning student employees:  

a. Name  

b. Administrative Unit  

c. Hours scheduled to work 

ARTICLE 56 - SPECIAL CONFERENCES  

264 - Special Conferences to discuss important matters (not current grievances) will be 
arranged by the local President and/or Chief Steward and the Employer or its 
designated representative upon request of either party. Such meetings shall be between 
no more than four (4) representatives of the Employer and no more than four (4) 
representatives of the Union, unless more are mutually agreed to. Arrangements for 
such Special Conferences shall be made in advance and an agenda of the matters to 

be taken up at the meeting shall be presented at the time the Conference is requested. 
Matters taken up in Special Conferences shall be confined to those included in the 
agenda. The members of the Union shall not lose time or pay for time spent in such 
Special Conferences. This meeting may be attended by a representative of Council 25.  

ARTICLE 57 - SAFETY APPAREL  

265 - Any employee's safety apparel or apparatus required by University rules and/or 
applicable laws, will be paid for by the University.  

266 - The parties agree that employees shall obtain eye examinations and prescriptions 
at their own cost. The Employer through an approved vendor shall make available to 
such employees a pair of prescription safety glasses at no cost.  

a. Should an employee desire to utilize frames and lenses which cost more than 
the basic line of frames and lenses subsidized by the Employer, he/she may do 
so, but the employee shall pay any additional costs over and above the basic 
line of approved frames and lenses.  

b. Employees can obtain replacement glasses with any prescription change 
and/or after two (2) years of normal use. 

ARTICLE 58 - PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS  

267 - While on assignment if an employee believes he/she has been exposed to 
hazardous conditions and requests an examination, the University, upon responsible 
verification of the hazardous condition, shall arrange the proper examination. The 
employee shall notify his/her supervisor who shall process the request as soon as 
possible. All medical records on any examinations conducted shall be available to the 
employee upon request of the employee's personal physician.  

ARTICLE 59 - SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS  

268 - All supplemental agreements shall be subject to the approval of the Employer and 
the Union. They shall be approved or rejected within a period of ten (10) days following 
the date they are filed by either party.  

ARTICLE 60 - SAVINGS CLAUSE  

269 - If during the life of this Agreement any of the provisions contained herein are held 
to be invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction or if 
compliance with or enforcement of any provisions should be restrained by such tribunal 

pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement shall not 
be affected thereby. In the event any provision herein contained is so rendered invalid, 
upon written request of either party hereto the Employer and the Union shall 
immediately enter into collective bargaining for the purpose of negotiating a mutually 
satisfactory replacement for such provision.  

ARTICLE 61 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS  

270 - The provisions herein contained constitute the entire Agreement between the 
parties.  

ARTICLE 62 - TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION  

271 - This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from the date hereof until 
11:59 p.m., June 30, 2002, and from year to year thereafter unless notice of termination 
or modification is given as provided in Paragraphs 273, 274, and 275 below.  

272 - If either party desires to terminate this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to 
the termination date, give written notice of termination. If neither party shall give notice 
of termination of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph or notice of amendment, 
as hereinafter provided, or if each party giving a notice of termination withdraws the 
same prior to termination date, this Agreement shall continue in effect from year to year 
thereafter subject to notice of termination by either party on sixty (60) days written 
notice prior to the current year's termination date.  

273 - If either party desires to modify or change this Agreement, it shall sixty (60) days 
prior to the termination date or any subsequent termination date, give written notice of 
amendment in which event the notice of amendment shall set forth the nature of the 
amendment or amendments desired. If notice of amendment of this Agreement has 
been given in accordance with this paragraph, this Agreement may be terminated by 
either party on ten (10) days written notice of termination but not before the effective 
termination date of this Agreement. Any amendments that may be agreed upon shall 
become and be a part of this Agreement without modifying or changing any of the other 
terms of this Agreement.  

274 - Notice of Termination Modification. Notice shall be in writing and shall be sufficient 
if sent by certified mail addressed to the Union, and if to the Employer, addressed to 
Director, Employee Relations, or to any such address as the Union or the Employer may 
make available to each other.  

275 - This Agreement shall be effective from and after July 1, 1999, until and including 
June 30, 2002, with respect to all provisions of this Agreement.  

ARTICLE 63 - EFFECTIVE DATE  

This Agreement shall become effective as of July 1, 1999.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES  

HAVE SET THEIR HANDS  

Date Signed  December 1, 1999  
   
   

EMPLOYER 

LOCAL 999 

Fred Poston  
Interim Vice President  
Finance and Operations 
C. Keith Groty  
Asst Vice President  
Human Resources 
Samuel Baker  
Director  
Employee Relations 
Gaston Gosselin  
Manager  
Maintenance Services 
Stanley Hecker  
Administrative Assistant  
Physical Plant 
Fred Kayne  
Associate Director  
University Housing 
John Lewis  
Director  
University Services 
M.C. Townsend  
Laboratory Administrator  
NSCL 

Dennis Lantzy  
President  
Local 999 

Susan Velianoff  
Vice President 

Dale Casteel  
Chief Steward 

Lawrence Ezzo  
Secretary-Treasurer 

Barbara Merriott  
Recording Secretary 

Hugh Forster   
Negotiator 

Charles Heckman  
Negotiator 

Duane Hunt  
Michigan AFSCME  
Council 25 

APPENDIX I  

LOCAL 999 AFSCME  

SCHEDULE OF SKILLED TRADES - CLASSIFICATIONS AND GRADES 

Bindery Machine Operator - 901  
Bindery Machine Operator II - 904  
Camera Operator/Image Assembler I - 904  
Camera Operator/Image Assembler II - 908  
Carpenter I - 908  
Carpenter II - 915  
Electrician I - 908  
Electrician II - 915  
Glazier I - 908  
Glazier II - 915  
Grounds Equipment Mechanic - 908  
Instrument Maker I - 909  
Instrument Maker II - 913  
Instrument Maker III - 916  
Locksmith I - 908  
Locksmith II - 915  
Mason I - 908  
Mason II - 915  
Mechanic Auto I - 908  
Mechanic Auto II - 915  
Mechanic Blacksmith I - 911  
Mechanic Blacksmith II - 916  
Mechanic Broadband Communications I - 908  
Mechanic Electronics I - 908  
Mechanic Electronics II - 915  
Mechanic Elevator I - 908  
Mechanic Elevator II - 915  
Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) I - 908  
Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) II - 915  
Mechanic Maintenance I - 908  
Mechanic Maintenance II - 915  
Mechanic Mechanical Equipment - 908  
Mechanic Metal Worker I - 908  
Mechanic Metal Worker II - 915  
Mechanic Parking Equipment I - 912  
Mechanic Parking Equipment II - 915  
Mechanic Refrigeration I - 908  
Mechanic Refrigeration II - 915  
Mechanic Telephone I - 908  
Mechanic Telephone II - 915  
Painter I - 908  

Painter II - 915  
Pipe Fitter I - 908  
Pipe Fitter II - 915  
Plasterer I - 912  
Plasterer II - 915  
Plumber I - 908  
Plumber II - 915  
Power Plant Electrician - 915  
Printing Press Operator I - 901  
Printing Press Operator II - 903  
Printing Press Operator III - 907  
Printing Production Group Leader - 909  
Research Shop Coordinator - 917  
Research Trades Assistant I - 902  
Research Trades Assistant II - 906  
Roofer I - 908  
Roofer II - 915  
Trades Helper I - 901  
Trades Helper II - 905  
Upholsterer - 908  
Welder I - 908  
Welder II - 915  

APPENDIX II  

LOCAL 999 AFSCME  

SCHEDULE OF SKILLED TRADES - CLASSIFICATIONS BY GRADES 

 

Classification  

  

Grade 900 
Grade 901  
    Bindery Machine Operator I  
    Printing Press Operator I  
    Trades Helper I 
Grade 902  
    Research Trades Assistant I 
Grade 903  

Effective 
07/01/99   
Hourly Range  

Minimum 

Effective 
07/01/99   
Hourly Range  

Maximum 

$14.60 
$14.19  

   

  

$14.60  

  

$14.96  

$17.78 
$15.81  

   

  

$16.29  

  

$16.64  

    Printing Press Operator II 
Grade 904  
    Bindery Machine Operator II  
    Camera Operator/Image Assembler I 
Grade 905  
    Trades Helper II 
Grade 906  
    Research Trades Assistant II 
Grade 907  
    Printing Press Operator III 
Grade 908  
    Camera Operator/Image Assembler II  
    Carpenter I  
    Electrician I  
    Glazier I  
    Grounds Equipment Mechanic  
    Locksmith I  
    Mason I  
    Mechanic Auto I  
    Mechanic Broadband Communications I  
    Mechanic Electronics I  
    Mechanic Elevator I  
    Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning 
(HVAC) I  
    Mechanic Maintenance I  
    Mechanic Mechanical Equipment  
    Mechanic Metal Worker I  
    Mechanic Refrigeration I  
    Mechanic Telephone I  
    Painter I  
    Pipe Fitter I  
    Plumber I  
    Roofer I  
    Upholsterer  
    Welder I 
Grade 909  
    Instrument Maker I  
    Printing Production Group Leader 
Grade 910 
Grade 911  
    Mechanic Blacksmith I 
Grade 912  
    Mechanic Parking Equipment I  

  

$15.09  

  

$15.40  

  

$16.17  

  

$16.74  

  

$17.33  

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

$17.47  

  

$17.60 
$18.08  

  

$18.34  

  

$16.95  

  

$17.35  

  

$17.78  

  

$18.48  

  

$19.10  

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

$19.30  

  

$19.58 
$19.67  

  

$20.37  

    Plasterer I 

Grade 913  
    Instrument Maker II 
Grade 914 
Grade 915  
    Carpenter II  
    Electrician II  
    Glazier II  
    Locksmith II  
    Mason II  
    Mechanic Auto II  
    Mechanic Blacksmith II  
    Mechanic Electronics II  
    Mechanic Elevator II  
    Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning   
    (HVAC) II  
    Mechanic Maintenance II  
    Mechanic Metal Worker II  
    Mechanic Parking Equipment II  
    Mechanic Refrigeration II  
    Mechanic Telephone II  
    Painter II  
    Pipe Fitter II  
    Plasterer II  
    Plumber II  
    Power Plant Electrician  
    Roofer II  
    Welder II 
Grade 916  
    Instrument Maker III 
Grade 917  
    Research Shop Coordinator 

  

$18.60  

  

  

$20.92  

  

$18.87 
$19.37  

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

$21.17 
 $22.02  

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

  

$20.16  

  

$20.93 

  

$23.03  

  

$24.04 

APPENDIX III  

WAGE SCHEDULE  

Local 999  

Effective July 1, 1999 

Level 
900 
901 

MINIMUM 

MAXIMUM 

$14.60 
$14.19 

$17.78 
$15.81 

902 
903 
904 
905 
906 
907 
908 
909 
910 
911 
912 
913 
914 
915 
916 
917 

Level 
900 
901 
902 
903 
904 
905 
906 
907 
908 
909 
910 
911 
912 
913 

$14.60 
$14.96 
$15.09 
$15.40 
$16.17 
$16.74 
$17.33 
$17.47 
$17.60 
$18.08 
$18.34 
$18.60 
$18.87 
$19.37 
$20.16 
$20.93 

$16.29 
$16.64 
$16.95 
$17.35 
$17.78 
$18.48 
$19.10 
$19.30 
$19.58 
$19.67 
$20.37 
$20.92 
$21.17 
$22.02 
$23.03 
$24.04 

APPENDIX IV  

WAGE SCHEDULE  

Local 999  

Effective July 1, 2000 
MINIMUM 

MAXIMUM 

$15.04 
$14.62 
$15.04 
$15.41 
$15.54 
$15.86 
$16.66 
$17.24 
$17.85 
$17.99 
$18.13 
$18.62 
$18.89 
$19.16 

$18.31 
$16.28 
$16.78 
$17.14 
$17.46 
$17.87 
$18.31 
$19.03 
$19.67 
$19.88 
$20.17 
$20.26 
$20.98 
$21.55 

914 
915 
916 
917 

Level 
900 
901 
902 
903 
904 
905 
906 
907 
908 
909 
910 
911 
912 
913 
914 
915 
916 
917 

$19.44 
$19.95 
$20.76 
$21.56 

$21.81 
$22.68 
$23.72 
$24.76 

APPENDIX V  

WAGE SCHEDULE  

Local 999  

Effective July 1, 2001 
MINIMUM 

MAXIMUM 

$15.19 
$14.77 
$15.19 
$15.56 
$15.70 
$16.02 
$16.83 
$17.41 
$18.03 
$18.17 
$18.31 
$18.81 
$19.08 
$19.35 
$19.63 
$20.15 
$20.97 
$21.78 

$18.49 
$16.44 
$16.95 
$17.31 
$17.63 
$18.05 
$18.49 
$19.22 
$19.87 
$20.08 
$20.37 
$20.46 
$21.19 
$21.77 
$22.03 
$22.91 
$23.96 
$25.01 

APPENDIX VI  

LOCAL 999 AFSCME 

DEFINITIONS  

1. Agreement - Whenever the word "Agreement" is used in this document, it shall be 
considered synonymous with the word "Contract."  

2. Base Rate of Pay - Is the per hour rate of the employee not including shift differential 
or overtime computations.  

3. Demotion - Demotion shall be considered the movement of an employee to a lower 
grade level.  

4. Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) Service Months  

A. Full-time equivalent (FTE) service months is defined as the cumulative full-
time equivalent (FTE) months of service for University employment of 50.0% or 
greater. FTE service months will be used in determining eligibility for University 
benefits which require a service waiting period.  

B. FTE service months will be credited each month as follows:  

a) 1.00 credit per month for full-time (90% - 100%) employees  

b) .75 credit per month for 3/4 time (65% - 89.9%) employees  

c) .50 credit per month for 1/2 time (50% - 64.9%) employees 

C. For new hires, terminations, percent of employment changes, etc., FTE 
service months will be credited based on an employee's status as of the 15th of 
the month.  

D. Employees on paid and unpaid leaves of absence or layoff will continue to 
accrue FTE service months based on their percent of employment immediately 
prior to the leave/ layoff.  

E. Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible 
to maintain group hospitalization and dental insurance and receive the 
Employer's proportional contribution.  

F. If an employee retires with 15 years of service and  at least age 62, use the 
following FTE Service Months ranges to determine their health and dental 
contribution during retirement.  

15 yrs (180 mos) -  
                              1/2 time (50%-64.9%): 90.00-116.99 FTE Service Months  
                              3/4 time (65%-89.9%): 117.00-161.99 FTE Service Months  
                              Full-time (90%-100%): 162.00-999.99 FTE Service Months  

If an employee retires with 25 years of service at any age, use the following FTE 
Service Month ranges.  

25 yrs (300 mos) -  
                              1/2 time (50%-64.9%): 150.00-194.99 FTE Service Months  
                              3/4 time (65%-89.9%): 195.00-269.99 FTE Service Months  
                              Full-time (90%-100%): 270.00-999.99 FTE Service Months 

5. "Full" Workers' Compensation - Is the payment of Workers' Compensation including 
sick, vacation or personal leave accrual supplementation.  

6. He/She - Wherever personal pronouns are used in this Agreement, it shall be 
understood that the gender is neuter.  

7. Hours of Employment Status -  

A. Full-time Employee - An employee who regularly works 36 hours to 40 hours 
per week.  

B. Three-Quarter Time Employee - An employee who regularly works 26 hours 
but less than 36 hours per week .  

C. Half-time Employee - An Employee who regularly works 20 hours but less 
than 26 hours per week. 

8. Lateral Transfer - A lateral transfer shall be considered the movement of an 
employee within the same grade level.  

9. Promotion - Promotion shall be considered the movement of an employee to a higher 
grade level.  

10. Proportional Benefits - Part-time benefits as identified in Paragraph 40 shall be 
apportioned to persons assigned less than full-time in the following manner:  

26 hours but less than 36 hours .........75%  
20 hours but less than 26 hours .........50%  
Less than 20 hours...........no benefits 

11. Regular Employee - Describes an employee who is not designated as temporary 
and who works at least 20 scheduled hours a week.  

12. Regular Rate of Pay - Is the per hour rate of the employee including shift differential.  

13. "Regular" Workers' Compensation - is the payment of Workers' Compensation with 
no sick, vacation or personal leave accrual supplementation.  

14. Temporary Employee - Any employee hired for nine (9) months or less, and given a 
date certain for termination at the time of employment.  

15. Unavailable - An employee shall be considered unavailable for overtime in the 
following situations:  

--The employee is on sick, funeral, jury or personal leave.  

--While the employee is on vacation and until the employee returns from 
vacation to the employee's regular shift unless the employee provides prior 
written notification to the supervisor of availability.  

--The employee is on paid or unpaid leave of absence, layoff, regular or full  
Workers' Compensation.  

--The employee belongs to the National Guard or United State Reserve Corps 
and is on duty. 

In these situations the employee will not be contacted for overtime, and will not be 
charged the average number of overtime hours of the employees working during the 
overtime period.  

16. Union - Whenever the words Local 999 or Union appear in this Agreement, they 
shall mean MSU Skilled Trades, Local Union No. 999, AFSCME.  

17. University or Employer - Whenever the words University or Employer appear in this 
Agreement, they shall mean Michigan State University.  

LETTERS OF AGREEMENT 

 

April 11, 1983  
   

Mr. Ronald Mateer  
President, Local 999  
Campus  

Dear Mr. Mateer:  

Recognizing the concern expressed by the membership of Local 999 AFSCME over the issue of 
the classification, Maintenance Mechanic, the University proposes that:  

1. The following classifications will be used in the operations of the Mechanical Shop as it is 
presently structured:  

Plumber Mechanic  
Refrigeration Mechanic  
Metal Worker Mechanic  
Maintenance Mechanic  
HVAC Mechanic  

2. Those employees presently classified as Maintenance Mechanics shall, within thirty (30) 
calendar days from the effective date of this Agreement, have the option to be reclassified into 
another applicable classification or to remain as Maintenance Mechanics.  

3. No employee will be classified or reclassified as a Maintenance Mechanic without his written 
approval.  

4. If the Employer finds it necessary to relocate or transfer any portion of the mechanical systems 
operations into another area of the Physical Plant, the Employer may do so without violating the 
intent of this letter nor will the Employer be required to change the employee's existing 
classification when such a transfer is made.  

The above is amended to the extent it has been modified by the Classification study 
recommendations which become effective on and after March 3, 1980.  

Very truly yours,  

Samuel A. Baker Director, Employee Relations  

Acceptance of Union  

_____________________________  
Ronald Mateer, President  
Local 999, Council No. 25, AFSCME, AFL-CIO  

April 11, 1983  
   

TO: Ronald Mateer  
       President, AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO  

FROM: Samuel A. Baker  
             Director, Employee Relations  

SUBJECT: Parking Fees  

 

The University and AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO, mutually agree to negotiate over the 
monetary effect of any increase in parking fees on employees represented by AFSCME, 
Local 999, AFL-CIO.  
   

Agreed by:  
   

Ronald Mateer  
President, AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO  

   

Samuel A. Baker  
Director, Employee Relations  

MEMORANDUM  
   

DATE:  November 23, 1999  

TO: Dennis Lantzy, President  
AFSCME Local 999  

FROM: Samuel A. Baker, Director  
Office of Employee Relations  

SUBJECT: Same-Sex Domestic Partner Benefit Eligibility  

The Employer will add benefit eligibility to same-sex domestic partners of regular 
applicable staff who meet the following criteria.  

They:  

 

1.  are same-sex and for this reason are unable to marry each other under 

Michigan Law, 

2.  are in long-term committed relationship, have been in the relationship for 

at least 6 months, and intend to remain together indefinitely, 

3.  are not married to others and neither has another domestic partner, 
4.  are at least 18 years of age and have the capacity to enter into a 

contract, 

5.  are not related to one another closely enough to bar marriage in 

Michigan, 

6.  share a residence and have done so for more than 6 months, 
7.  are jointly responsible to each other for the necessities of life, 
8.  provide a signed "partnership agreement" that obligates each of the 

parties to provide support for one another, and provides for substantially 
equal division, upon termination of the relationship, of earnings during the 
relationship and any property acquired with those earnings. 

Same-sex domestic partners children will be eligible for health and dental benefits if 
they:  

1.  are qualified and claimed as an IRS-defined dependent by the domestic 

partner, and 

2.  are members of the employees household or a full-time student, and 
3.  are unmarried and under the age of 19 (if a full-time student, up to the 
end of the year they reach age 25 for health benefits, and up to the end 
of the year they reach age 23 for dental benefits). 

Employees enrolling same-sex domestic partners will be required to complete a 
Domestic Partnership Declaration and provide a signed "partnership agreement." They 
will have to keep a "partnership agreement" meeting the criteria described above in 
effect to be eligible for domestic partner benefits.  

The following benefits will be provided to same-sex domestic partners and their 
dependents as for a regular employees spouse and other dependents:  

1.  family and medical leave 
2.  COBRA continuation 
3.  course fee courtesy 
4.  ID cards 
5.  access to library, recreational, and athletic facilities 
6.  university apartments 
7.  parental, sick and bereavement leaves 
8.  child care services 
9.  health insurance* 
10. dental insurance* 
11. post-retirement benefits* 
12. employee-paid life and accidental death and dismemberment insurance* 

(* These benefits will be provided on the same basis as for other 
employees if they can be renegotiated with carriers to obtain equivalent 
coverage without a premium surcharge) 

The University will provide a premium contribution for same-sex domestic partner 
benefits comparable to that provided for a regular employees spouse and dependents 
(subject to taxation as required by federal, state, and other applicable law). 

