Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

36

Language English

Country United States

State MI

Union International Union of Operating Engineers (AFL-CIO)

Local

Local 547

Stationary engineers and boiler operators 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Michigan State University
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 1999

EndYear

2002

Source

http://www.hr.msu.edu/Docweb/contracts/default.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)
Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN 
 
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
 
and 
 
LOCAL 547, A,B,C,E, and H, INTERNATIONAL UNION OF 
 
OPERATING ENGINEERS, AFL-CIO 
 
DECEMBER 16, 1999 - DECEMBER 15, 2002 
 
 
 

 
 
Article     Paragraph       
Number      Number       
 
  

    
   

  1 
  2 
  3 
  6 
 10 
 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 

     
  
   

    
   

   

   

 
 

  
  

    
 
  

  1 
  2 
  3 
 

  4 
  5 

  6 

  7 

  8 
  9 
 

 10 
 11 
 

 12 
 13 
 14 
 

  
 15 
   
 16 
    
 17 
 18 
 
 19           
 

 20 

 21 
 22 
 23 

   

   
   
 

 15 
 16 
   
 21 
   
 32 
   
 39 
 42 

 44 
 57 

 62 
 83 
 85 

 86 
 91 
 96 
101  
107 

109 

110 
115 
125 

  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  

  
  

  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  

  

  
  
  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Article         

 

                         

Page 

  
   

 
Preface 
 
Agreement 
  
Purpose and Intent 
Non-Discrimination 
  
Rights of the Employer 
No-Strike Guarantee 
  

 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

   

Union 
Recognition 
Union Security - Requirements of 
  Union Membership     
Union Dues, Initiation Fees and 
  Service Charges 
Seniority Definitions and Loss of 
  Seniority 
Probationary Employees 
Union Bulletin Board     

 
  
 

   

 

 

 

Promotion and Layoffs 
 
Promotions 
 
Layoff and Recall Procedures   

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 

Grievance, Discipline and Dispute 
Grievance Procedure   
 
Reprimand, Suspension, or Discharge 
Medical Dispute 
 

  

 

 

Compensation and Wages 
Classifications and Wages 
Work Schedules 
Shift Premium  
Overtime 
 
Call-In and Reporting Pay 

  
 
 

 

Leave of Absence 
Absences 
Paid 
Holiday Provisions 
Sick Leave         
Vacations  
 

 

 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 1 

 
 1 
 1 
 1-2 
 2 
 2 

 3 

 3 

 4-5 

 6-8 
 8 
 8-9 

 9-11 
11-12 

12-15 
15 
15-16 

16-18 
18-19 
19 
20-21 
21-22 

22 

22-23 
23-25 
25-26 

Article     Paragraph       
Number      Number          
 
 24 
 25 
 26 
 27 

132 
137 
140 
142 

   
 
   
   

  
  
  
  

143 
144 
 
145 
148 
151 
160 

161 

166 
171 
179 
182 
184 

199 
200 
201 
202 
209 
210 
211 
212 
213 
214 
218 

  
  
 
  
  
  
  

  

  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
 
  
   
   
   

  

 
   
  
   
   

   
  
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   

 28 
 29 
   
 30 
 31 
 32 
 33 
 

 34 
 

 35 
 36 
 37 
 38 
 39 
 

 40 
 41 
 42 
 43 
 44 
 45 
 46 
 47 
 48 
 49 
 50 

 
 
 

 Article    

                            

  

 
 
 
 

 
Personal Leave Day 
 
Funeral Leave        
Jury Duty 
 
Union Education Leave 
Non-Paid 
Personal Leave        
Leave of Absence for Illness  
 
 
   or Disability  
 
Military Leave               
 
Leave for Union Business 
General Conditions       
 
Return to Active Employment 

 

 

Education 
Educational Assistance       

Insurance Programs  
Health Care Coverage     
Disability Plans      
  
Expanded Life Plan      
Employee-Paid Life     
Retirement Benefits  
  

 

  
 
 
  
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Additional Articles 
Special Conferences 
  
 
Supervision Working   
 
Work By Other Employees  
 
Maintenance of Conditions 
  
Savings Clause              
 
Waiver         
  
 
Contract Documents   
 
Supplemental Agreements 
 
Ratification             
  
Termination and Modification 
Effective Date               
 
Appendix I - Wage Schedule 1999 
Appendix II - Wage Schedule 2000        
Appendix III - Wage Schedule 2001   
 
Appendix IV - Definitions           
Letters of Agreement   
 
 
 
Index   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 
 

 

 

Page 

27 
27-28 
28 
28 

29 

29 
29-30 
30 
30-31 
31-32 

32-33 

33-34 
35-36 
36 
36 
37-39 

39 
39-40 
40 
40 
41 
41 
41 
41 
42 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
47-49 
50-68 
69-72 

 

PREFACE 
 
-1 
The Board of Trustees of Michigan State University and Local 547, A, B, C, E, and H, 
International Union of Operating Engineers, AFL-CIO recognize their moral and legal responsibilities 
under federal, state, and local laws relating to fair employment practices. 
 
 
AGREEMENT 
 
-2 
This Agreement entered into this 16th day of December, 1999, between the Board of Trustees 
of Michigan State University (hereinafter referred to as the "EMPLOYER") and Local 547, A, B, C, 
E, and H, International  Union of Operating Engineers, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the 
"UNION"). 
 
 
PURPOSE AND INTENT 
 
The general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth terms and conditions of employment, 
-3 
and to promote orderly and peaceful labor relations for the mutual interest of the Employer, the 
employees and the Union. 
 
-4 
depend upon the Employer's success in establishing a proper service to the State. 
 
To these ends the Employer and the Union encourage to the fullest degree friendly and 
-5 
cooperative relations between the respective representatives at all levels and among all employees. 
 
 
ARTICLE 1 
 
NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
-6 
Neither the Union, its officials nor its members shall discriminate against, intimidate, coerce, 
or restrain any University employee with respect to or because of his/her non-membership in the 
Union. 
 
-7 
or because of his/her membership or lawful Union activity. 
 
-8 
application of this Agreement because of race, creed, color, sex, age or national origin.  
 

The Employer shall not discriminate against, restrain, or coerce any employee with respect to 

The parties recognize that the interest of the Employer and the job security of the employees 

The Employer and the Union agree that there will be no unlawful discrimination in the 

 
 

1

Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent an employee alleging discrimination 

There shall be no strikes or lockouts for the duration of the Agreement. 

-9 
from exercising constitutional or statutory rights which may be available. 
 
 
ARTICLE 2 
 
RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYER 
 
-10 
The Employer reserves and retains, solely and exclusively, all rights to manage and direct its 
work forces, except as expressly abridged by the provisions of this Agreement, including by way of 
illustration but not limitation, the determination of policies, operations, assignments, schedules, 
discipline, and layoff, for the orderly and efficient operation of the University. 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 
 
NO-STRIKE GUARANTEE 
 
-11 
 
-12 
In  the  event  of  any  action  in  violation  of  this  Agreement,  the  Union  will  post  notices 
immediately  at  all  facilities  affected,  advising  that  such  action  is  unlawful,  in  violation  of  this 
Agreement, and unauthorized by the Union.  The Union shall further advise any and all members in 
the  bargaining  unit  involved,  including  notification  to  the  communications  or  press  media,  if 
requested by the Employer, that such bargaining unit members are in violation of this Agreement and 
that all members of the bargaining unit involved shall return forthwith to their regular duties. If the 
Union takes the foregoing steps and has not acted in violation of its obligations under the Agreement, 
it shall not be liable in any way for such activities. 
 
-13 
The Employer shall have the right to discipline including discharge, any member of the 
bargaining  unit for taking part in any violation of this provision.  In addition, any member or 
members of the bargaining unit, violating this provision may be held liable by the Employer for any 
and all damages, injuries, and costs incurred. Prior to the taking of disciplinary or other action 
enumerated herein the Employer shall notify the Union of its intentions. 
 
-14 
shall be liable for any and all damages, injuries, and costs incurred by the Employer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

In the event the Union does not adhere to or abide by the above provisions of this clause, it 

2

ARTICLE 4 
 
RECOGNITION 
 
-15 
Employees Covered - Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of Act 379 
of the Public Acts of 1965, as amended, the Employer does hereby recognize the Union as the 
exclusive representative for the purposes of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, 
hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for the term of this Agreement of all 
employees of the Employer as described in Appendix I of this Agreement excluding professionals 
and executives, supervisors, and all other employees. 
 
 
ARTICLE 5 
 
UNION SECURITY - REQUIREMENTS OF UNION MEMBERSHIP 
 
-16 
All employees employed in the bargaining unit, or who become employees in the bargaining 
unit, who are not already members of the Union shall within thirty (30) days of the effective date of 
this provision or within thirty (30) days of the date of hire, whichever is later become members, or in 
the alternative, shall, within thirty (30) days of their date of hire, as a condition of employment, pay 
to the Union each month a service fee in an amount equal to the regular monthly Union membership 
dues uniformly required of employees of the Employer who are members. 
 
-17 
An employee who shall tender or authorize the deduction of membership dues (or service 
fees) uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or obtaining membership in the Union, shall be 
deemed to meet the conditions of this Article so long as the employee is not more than sixty (60) 
days in arrears of payment of such dues (or fees). 
 
-18 
days in arrears in payment of membership dues (or fees). 
 
-19 
modified to comply with the requirements of said Federal or State law. 
 
-20 
The Union agrees that in the event of litigation against the Employer, its agents or employees 
arising out of this provision, the Union will co-defend and fully indemnify and hold harmless the 
Employer, its agents or employees for any monetary award arising out of such litigation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

If any provision of this Article is invalid under Federal or State law, said provisions shall be 

The Employer shall be notified, in writing, by the Union of any employee who is sixty (60) 

3

ARTICLE 6 
 
UNION DUES, INITIATION FEES AND SERVICE CHARGES 
 
A.  Payment by Checkoff or Direct to Union 
 
-21 
The Employer will check off initiation fees and monthly dues, or service charges, on the basis 
of individually signed voluntary check-off authorization cards in forms that have been agreed to by 
the Employer and the Union.  Employees may tender the initiation fee uniformly required as a 
condition of acquiring membership in the Union and monthly membership dues, or service charges, 
by signing the proper authorization for check-off form, or may pay the same directly to the Union.  
Employees may cancel authorizations for checkoff of union dues or service charges and make such 
payments directly to the Union. 
 
B.  Employer Responsibility for Deductions 
 
-22 
The Employer shall have no responsibility for the collection of initiation fees and membership 
dues, or service charges, or any other assessments that are not in accordance with the Union Security 
Clause of the Agreement. 
 
C.  Delivery of Executed Authorizations for Checkoff 
 
-23 
A properly executed copy of the form authorizing checkoff by an employee for whom 
initiation fees and monthly membership dues, or service charges, are to be deducted in accordance 
with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement shall be delivered to the Employer before any 
payroll deductions are made.  Deductions shall be made thereafter only under a properly executed 
authorization  for  checkoff  which  is  in  effect.    Any  authorization  for  check-off form which is 
incomplete or in error will be returned to the Financial Secretary of the Union by the Employer. 
 
D.  When Deductions Begin 
 
Deductions under all properly executed authorizations for check- off shall become effective at 
-24 
the time such authorizations are tendered to the Employer and shall be deducted from the first (1st) 
pay of the month and each month thereafter. 
 
E.  Refunds 
 
-25 
In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that any employee already has 
made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union 
Constitution or Bylaws, refunds to the employee will be made by the Union. 
 
 
 
 
 

4

F.  Remittance of Deductions 
 
-26 
Deductions for any calendar month shall be remitted to the designated Financial Secretary of 
the Union as soon as possible after the first pay of that month.  The Employer shall furnish to the 
Financial Secretary of the Union a monthly list of employees for whom deductions have been made 
and the amounts thereof. 
 
G.  Termination of Checkoff 
 
-27 
An employee shall cease to be subject to checkoff deductions beginning with the month 
immediately following the month in which he/she is no longer a member of the bargaining unit.  The 
Union will be notified by the Employer of the names of such employees following the end of each 
month in which the termination took place.   
 
H.  Disputes Concerning Checkoff 
 
-28 
Any dispute between the Union and the Employer which may arise as to whether or not an 
employee properly executed or properly revoked an authorization for checkoff, shall be reviewed 
with the employee by a representative of the local Union and the representative of the University. The 
decision of the representative of the local Union and the representative of the University shall be final 
and binding on the employee, the Union, and the Employer.  Until the matter is disposed of, no 
further deductions shall be made. 
 
I.  Limit of Employer's Liability 
 
-29 
The  Employer  shall  not  be  liable  to  the  Union  by  reason  of  the  requirements  of  this 
Agreement for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions 
made from wages earned by employees. 
 
J.  Disputes Concerning Membership 
 
Any dispute arising as to an employee's membership in the Union shall be reviewed by the 
-30 
representative of the University and a representative of the local Union.  However, the employee may 
be retained at work while the dispute is being resolved. 
 
K.  Employer Liability 
 
-31 
The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any liability resulting from 
any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising from compliance with this Article, or in 
reliance on any list, notice, certification or authorization furnished under this Article. 
 
 
 
 
 

5

 
ARTICLE 7 
 
SENIORITY DEFINITIONS AND LOSS OF SENIORITY 
 
A.  Definitions 
 
-32 
                       

 

 

 

For the purposes of this Agreement the following definitions shall apply: 

a.  University Seniority:  Means length of continuous service with the beginning with the 
 
latest date of hiring with the Employer including periods of authorized leave of absence 
and layoff and shall include periods of service outside the bargaining unit.  This date shall 
 
 
be used for benefit purposes. 

b.  Unit Seniority:  Means length of continuous service in the bargaining unit beginning  
  with the latest date of hiring or transfer into the bargaining unit. 

c.  Classification Seniority:  Means length of continuous service in a classification beginning 
  with the latest date of hiring or transfer into the classification.  This date shall be used for 
 

promotions and layoffs. 

d.  Length of Continuous Service:  Means uninterrupted employment but includes layoffs 
and other periods of absence authorized by and consistent with this Agreement except as 
 
 
limited by Section C. of this Article. 

 
B.  Temporary Employees 
 
-33 
There shall be no seniority or rights of recall for persons who are employed for specific 
temporary jobs lasting nine (9) months or less.  At the time of employment, the temporary employee 
and Local 547 will be advised as to a date certain for termination.  After completion of the six (6) 
month probationary period, the temporary employee may not be discharged prior to the date certain 
for termination except for just cause.  It is understood that temporary employees have the right to bid 
on posted job vacancies two (2) weeks prior or within thirty (30) days after completion of their term 
of  temporary  employment,  provided  they  have  completed  their  probationary  period.    For  this 
purpose only their seniority will be recognized for time actually worked.  Upon completion of six (6) 
months of employment, temporary employees will become eligible for vacation on a proportional 
basis.  Temporary employees shall be granted sick leave and holiday pay, on a proportional basis. 
 
 C.  Loss of Seniority 
 
-34 
 
     
 
 

An employee shall lose his/her status as an employee and his/her seniority if: 

a.  He/She resigns or quits. 

6

b.  He/She is discharged or terminated (unless reversed through the grievance or arbitration 
 

procedures). 

c.  He/She retires. 

d.  He/She does not return to work from layoff within five (5) calendar days after being  
 
 
 

notified to return by certified or registered mail or by telegram addressed to the employee 
at his/her last address filed with Human Resource Services.  An employee who changes 
his/her address must notify the Employer of the change. 

e.  He/She has been on layoff for a period of time equal to his/her unit seniority at the  
 

time of his/her layoff or two (2) years, whichever is less. 

f.  He/She is absent from work, including the failure to return to work at the expiration  
 
 
 

of a leave of absence, vacation, or disciplinary layoff, for three (3) consecutive working 
days without notifying the Employer, except when the failure to notify and work is due 
to circumstances beyond the control of the employee. 

 
     

 

 

 

 

 
-35 
A grievance involving compliance with this Section shall begin at Step III of the Grievance 
Procedure, and may be processed through the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures by an employee 
who has lost his/her status as an employee and his/her seniority, provided it is submitted in writing at 
Step III of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) working days after the facts are known or should 
reasonably have been known giving rise to his/her grievance. 
 
D.  Return Rights 
 
-36 
An employee who is, or was in the past, promoted or transferred to any position with the 
Employer with supervisory authority over employees in the bargaining unit shall continue to accrue 
classification seniority, as long as he/she remains in the employment of the Employer for up to two 
(2) years at which time his/her classification seniority shall be frozen.  An employee who is, or was in 
the past, promoted or transferred to any other position with the Employer shall retain classification 
seniority, up to two (2) years at which time his/her classification seniority shall be frozen, as long as 
he/she remains in the employment of the Employer.  In the event such an employee is returned to the 
unit, his/her placement in a classification in the unit shall be determined in the same manner as if 
he/she were returned from a leave of absence. 
 
-37 
An  employee  returning  to  the  bargaining  unit  within  twelve  (12)  months  of  his/her 
termination from University employment shall receive credit for University seniority earned prior to 
the date of termination, after successful completion of the probationary period for calculation of 
vacation, longevity, and retirement benefits.  This section shall only apply to employees returning to 
the bargaining unit after the effective date of this Agreement. 
 
 
 

7

An employee is a "probationary employee" for the first six (6) months of his/her regular full-

Probationary employees may be disciplined or laid off or terminated with or without cause 

 
E.  Seniority List 
 
The  Employer  shall  prepare  and  maintain  a  seniority  list  which  shall  show  the  names, 
-38 
classification title, the University unit, and classification seniority of all non-probationary employees. 
 The Employer will keep the seniority lists up-to-date at all times.  The Employer will, if requested by 
the Union, furnish a corrected seniority list every six (6) months to the Union. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8 
 
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES 
 
-39 
time continuous employment (1040 hours actual time worked). 
 
-40 
A probationary employee shall have no seniority, except University seniority, until he/she has 
completed his/her probationary period.  Upon the completion of his/her probationary period, he/she 
shall acquire unit and classification seniority and be entered on the seniority list and shall rank for 
seniority from the six (6) months prior to the date he/she completed his/her probationary period. 
 
-41 
and without regard to the grievance and arbitration procedures. 
 
 
ARTICLE 9 
 
UNION BULLETIN BOARD 
 
-42 
which may be used by the Union for posting notices of the following types: 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 

The Employer will provide enclosed bulletin boards that may be locked in each power plant 

8

a.  Notices of Union recreational and social events. 

b.  Notice of Union elections. 

c.  Notices of results of Union elections. 

d.  Notices of Union meetings  

 
-43 
 
The Union shall have the exclusive right to the use of its assigned bulletin boards.  In the event a 
dispute arises concerning the appropriateness of material posted on the Union bulletin boards, an 
officer of the local Union will be advised by the Office of Employee Relations of the nature of the 
dispute and the notices or bulletins in question will be removed from the bulletin boards until the 
dispute is resolved. 
 
 
ARTICLE 10 
 
PROMOTIONS 
 
-44 
The Employer will make promotions within occupational series within the bargaining unit on 
a seniority basis to its employees whose work performance has been satisfactory and who possess 
the general physical qualifications for the opening as well as the special qualifications and training 
necessary for the opening under consideration.                                                       
 
-45A  A  "promotion"  is  defined  as  the  transfer  of  an  employee  to  a  regular  opening  in  a 
classification in the same occupational series assigned to a higher pay grade within the seniority  unit. 
 A regular opening is one which is expected to continue indefinitely until discontinued by the 
Employer and shall not include any opening which is limited in duration, or occasioned by absences 
for whatever the reason, or an incident of work assignment shifting. 
 
-45B  A position not filled by promotion may be posted as a vacancy.  All vacancies within the 
bargaining unit will be posted on the employee bulletin board. 
 
-46A 
his/her requests will be given consideration. 
 
-46B  Posted vacancies will be filled by bargaining unit seniority among applicants whose work 
performance has been satisfactory and who possess the general physical qualifications for the 
vacancy as well as special qualifications and training necessary for the job under consideration.  If 
there are no qualified applicants from within the bargaining unit, the vacancy may be filled from 
other qualified applicants. 
 
-47 
A promotion or filling of vacancy may be questioned through the Grievance and Arbitration 
Procedures, but only by an employee in the seniority unit in which the opening occurs who has 
requested on a form provided by the Employer that he/she be considered for promotion to the 
classification in question and either (1) has greater unit seniority, or (2) is assigned to a classification 
in a higher pay grade than the employee selected for the promotion. 
 
 
 

If an employee has filed more than one request for posted vacancy only the most recent of 

Limit on Use of Bulletin Boards 

9

No employee within the bargaining unit will be required to downgrade and assume the duties 

 
-48 
of a person in training for a higher classification. 
 

a.  Stationary Engineer, 2nd Class:  From the date of ratification of this contract between  
  Michigan State University and Local 547, International Union of Operating Engineers, 
  AFL-CIO, all employees entering into the classification of Stationary Engineers, 2nd    
  Class, will be required, as a condition of employment, to enter into the classification of 
 

Stationary Engineer, 1st class, when there is a position opening, if qualified.  

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

b.  Boiler Operator Trainee Classification:  If a Boiler Operator Trainee is temporarily  
 
 

 
 
 
assigned as a Boiler Operator for more than 50 
calendar quarter, the employee shall be advanced two pay grade levels 

trainee exceed the maximum regular hourly rate of the Boiler Operator Trainee  
classification. 

  Operator Trainee classification.  In no case, however, shall the regular hourly rate for any 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
hours in any  
in the Boiler  
 
 
 
 
The Employer will make promotions to the Stationary Engineer 1st class by selecting the 
-49 
senior applicant from the Stationary Engineer 2nd class who has been “Qualified” for step up and has 
demonstrated satisfactory job performance over the previous three years. 
 
Stationary Engineer 1st class will be considered on an evaluation status for six (6) months 
-50 
after selection to this classification.  Either the Employer or the employee can request an evaluation 
review during this period.  During the evaluation period the employee may be returned to Stationary 
Engineer 2nd class based on unsatisfactory job performance.  The employee may voluntarily return to 
Stationary Engineer 2nd class during the evaluation period. 
 
-51 
Engineer 1st by submitting a request in writing, to the Operations Supervisor that they are 
prepared for step up review. 
 
-52 
and Water management and two from the Local Operating Engineers Union (one of the two shall 
be from the ranks of the Stationary 1st Engineers).   The team would perform a qualification 
review and make recommendation to the Director of Utilities.   The Director would retain the right 
of final approval or rejection.  Candidates who after review are rejected for step up shall be given 
a written statement with description of the reasons for the failure and suggested methods for 
correction and/or improvement. 
 
-53  

Stationary Engineers 2nd class will be considered for eligibility for step up to Stationary 

Step up review will be performed by a committee of five employees, three from Power 

The basis of the qualification review will be as follows: 

1)  Minimum two (2) years combined experience as Stationary 2nd and/or Stationary 3rd 

 
 

10

Engineer. 

2)  Demonstrated skill in operating & knowledge of all plant systems. 
3)  Successful completion of in plant NUS training program. 
 
4)  Successful completion of Stationary 2nd Engineer to Stationary 1st Engineer job 

performance check off. 

5)  Satisfactory job performance over the previous three years. 
6)  Demonstrated ability to perform the physical duties of the classification. 
7)  Potential to be good leader, trainer and communicator 
8)  Attendance 

The parties recognize the employer's commitment to and program for Affirmative Action.  To 

Stationary Engineer 2nd class candidates who fail the step up review will be eligible to 

Stationary Engineer 2nd class who successfully complete the step up review will receive 

 
-54 
resubmit a review request after 6 months. 
 
-55 
the “Qualified” step up pay premium.   Qualified Stationary Engineer 2nd class will be required to 
attend additional technical and Human Relations training within 12 months of obtaining this 
classification.   Failure to participate in continuing education is a basis for unsatisfactory job 
performance. 
 
-56 
that end the parties agree to cooperate to the extent possible for the achievement of this 
 objective. 
 
 
ARTICLE 11 
 
LAYOFF AND RECALL PROCEDURES 
 
A.  Layoff Procedure 
 
-57  When an employee is to be laid off, the following layoff procedure shall apply: 
 

a.  Layoffs shall be by and from the seniority unit. 

 

 

 
 

b.  The employee with the least classification seniority in a classification that is affected  
 
 

shall be removed from the classification first, provided that the employees remaining in 
the classification have the ability to do the work available.  

c.  Such removed employee shall be transferred, conditioned upon ability to do the work, 
to replace an employee with less classification seniority in a classification assigned to the 
 
next lower pay grade in the seniority unit.  If there is no such employee in a classification 
 
 
assigned to the next lower pay grade in the seniority unit, this procedure shall be applied 

11

 
 

to classifications assigned to each succeeding next lower pay grade in the seniority unit 
until the appropriate employee is laid off.  

d.  Seniority employees who are to be laid off for an indefinite period of time will have  
 
 
 

at least seven (7) days notice of layoff, and wherever possible a two (2) week notice shall  
be given.  The local Union shall be mailed a list from the Employer of the employees    
being laid off on the same date the notices are issued to the employees. 

 

 
B.  Recall Procedure 
 
-58  When an employee is to be recalled to work from layoff, or there is to be a return to a 
classification from which an employee was removed as a result of a layoff, the reverse application of 
the layoff procedure shall be applied before hiring or making a promotion. 
 
C.  Classification Seniority 
 
-59 
For  the  purpose  of  this  Article,  an  employee  shall  accrue  classification  seniority  in  all 
classifications assigned to lower pay grades in the seniority unit equal to the length of time in the 
higher classification as well as accrue classification seniority as defined in Section A. c. of Article 7.  
In  addition  and  notwithstanding  Section  A.  c.  of  Article  7,  he/she  shall  continue  to  accrue 
classification seniority in all classifications to which he/she was previously assigned. 
 
D.  Liability 
 
A grievance involving compliance with this Article shall begin at Step II of the Grievance 
-60 
Procedure, provided it is submitted in writing at Step II of the Grievance Procedure within five (5) 
working  days  after  facts  are  known  or  should  reasonably  have  been  known  giving  rise  to  the 
grievance. 
 
-61 
Liability of the Employer for failure to apply correctly any provision of this Article, shall 
commence not earlier than the date of submitting the written grievance alleging such violation at Step 
II of the Grievance Procedure, providing the Employer sends a copy of Notice of Recall to the Union. 
 
 
ARTICLE 12 
 
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
 
A.  General 
 
-62 
A grievance is a difference between the Employer and the Union which involves an employee 
or groups of employees and concerns (1) working conditions or (2) the interpretation or application 
of any provision of this Agreement. 
 
 

12

A grievance concerning alleged safety hazards may be processed directly to Step I of the 

If the Union fails to file an appeal within the stipulated time limits, the grievance will be 

If the Employer fails to respond to the grievance at any step within the specified time limits, 

 
-63 
The time elements in the steps can be shortened or extended by mutual written agreement.  
For the purpose of processing grievances, working days shall be defined as Monday through Friday, 
excluding all paid holidays. 
 
-64 
Grievance Procedure. 
 
-65 
Any grievance not presented for disposition through the grievance procedure within five (5) 
working days of the date of the occurrence of the conditions giving rise to the grievance, or within 
five (5) working days of the date it is reasonable to assume that the employee or Union first became 
aware of the conditions giving rise to the grievance, unless, the circumstances made it impossible for 
the employee or the Union, as the case may be, to know prior to that date that there were grounds for 
such a claim, the grievance shall not hereafter be considered a grievance under this Agreement. 
 
-66 
considered settled based upon the last answer submitted by the Employer. 
 
-67 
the Union may appeal the grievance to the next step of the procedure. 
 
-68 
An employee having a grievance may present it orally to his/her supervisor.  In the event an 
employee desires that his/her steward be present, he/she shall make his/her request through the 
supervisor, and the supervisor shall send for the steward. 
 
B.  STEP I 
 
-69 
In the event the grievance is not settled orally by the supervisor, the steward shall submit the 
grievance in writing to the Director of Utilities within five (5) working days of the oral discussion.  
The employee and the steward shall sign the grievance forms.  The grievance forms must indicate (1) 
a statement of the grievance and the facts upon which it is based and citing the alleged violation(s) of 
this Agreement, and (2) the remedy or correction requested.  The Manager Utility Services shall 
schedule a meeting with the Union five (5) working days of the appeal and render a decision in 
writing within five (5) working days of his/her meeting. 
 
C.  STEP II 
 
-70 
Any appeal of a decision rendered by the Director of Utilities shall be presented in writing to 
the Administrative Head or his/her designee within five (5) working days of the date of receipt of the 
written decision of the Director of Utilities.  The appeal shall state the reason or reasons why the 
decision of the Director of Utilities was not satisfactory. 
 

 
 

13

The Administrative Head or his/her designee shall schedule within five (5) working days a 

The Administrative Head or his/her designee shall then give his/her decision in writing to the 

-71 
meeting with the Union at a time mutually agreeable to them. 
 
-72 
Union within five (5) working days of the meeting. 
 
D.  STEP III 
 
-73 
If the decision of the Administrative Head is not satisfactory to the Union, it shall be appealed 
to the Office of Employee Relations within five (5) working days of the receipt of the answer from 
the Administrative Head. 
 
-74 
Upon receipt of the appeal, the Office of Employee Relations will within five (5) working 
days schedule a meeting with the Union to discuss the grievance.  The Office of Employee Relations 
will render a disposition of the grievance within ten (10) working days of the meeting. 
 
E.  STEP IV 
 
-75 
If the Office of Employee Relation's answer is not satisfactory, an appeal to arbitration will be 
filed within fifteen (15) working days of the receipt of the Office of Employee Relation's answer. 
 
-76 
The parties will meet within ten (10) working days of the receipt of the appeal to choose a 
mutually acceptable arbitrator.  If the parties fail to agree upon an arbitrator, a demand will be filed by 
the Union with the American Arbitration Association within five (5) working days.  The rules of the 
American Arbitration Association will apply to all arbitration hearings. 
 
-77 
The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to add to, subtract from or modify any of the terms 
of this Agreement or any written amendments hereof, or to specify the terms of a new Agreement, or 
to substitute his/her discretion for that of any of the parties hereto. 
 
-78 
to the parties without decision. 
 
-79 
the Union. 
 
-80 
from the date of the conclusion of the arbitration hearing. 
 
-81 
The decision of the arbitrator shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all employees, the 
Employer and the Union, and there shall be no strike, slowdown, curtailment or interruption of 
operation, or lockout as a result of such decision. 
 
 
 

The arbitrator shall render his/her decision in writing not later than thirty (30) calendar days 

The fees and approved expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the University and 

Any case appealed to an arbitrator on which he/she has no power to rule shall be turned back 

14

 
 
-82 
The Union will not encourage or cooperate with any of its members in any appeal to any 
Court or Labor Board of a decision of the Arbitrator so long as the Arbitrator has not exceeded 
his/her contractual or legal authority.  The Employer shall not appeal the decision of the Arbitrator to 
any Court or Labor Board so long as the Arbitrator has not exceeded his/her contractual or legal 
authority. 
 
 
ARTICLE 13 
 
REPRIMAND, SUSPENSION, OR DISCHARGE 
 
-83 
The Employer shall not discharge or take other disciplinary action without just cause.  By 
way of illustration, but not by way of limitation, just cause includes any act or omission which 
interferes with or affects in any way the orderly and efficient administration or operation of the 
University,  any  violations  of  this  Agreement,  any  violation  of  a  reasonable rule, regulation, or 
requirement, whether or not written, which is known, or reasonably should have been known by an 
employee, provided, however, any new rule, regulation or requirement shall not be contrary to the 
terms of this Agreement. Disciplinary action shall be on a timely basis dependent on the facts and 
circumstances involved, including the time taken in investigating and analyzing the facts and circum-
stances.  In imposing any discipline on a current charge, the University will not take into account any 
prior infractions of  which the University had knowledge, that occurred more than two (2) years pre-
viously. 
 
-84 
employee and (2) alleges that no cause in fact existed, or that a disciplinary action was taken  
arbitrarily and was excessive, may be processed through the Grievance and Arbitration Procedures, 
provided it is submitted in writing within five (5) working days after receipt by the employee and the 
Chief Steward of the Employer's written notification of the disciplinary action.  A grievance over a 
written letter of reprimand shall be submitted by the Steward at Step II of the grievance procedure, 
whereas a grievance over a suspension or discharge shall be submitted at Step III.  The notification 
shall include the nature of the cause and the extent of the action taken.  Failure to submit a written 
grievance by the employee within the five (5) day period shall constitute a waiver of all claims 
concerning such disciplinary action or discharge. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14 
 
MEDICAL DISPUTE 
 
In the event of a dispute involving any employee's physical ability to perform his/her job on 
-85 
his/her return to work at the University from a layoff or leave of absence of any kind and the 
 
 

A grievance which (1) concerns a disciplinary action or discharge of a non-probationary 

 

15

employee is not satisfied with the determination of a physician designated by the University, he/she 
may submit a report from a medical doctor of his/her own choosing and at his/her own expense.  If 
the dispute still exists, and at the request of the Union, the Employer and the Union shall agree upon 
a third medical doctor to submit a report to the Employer, the Union and the employee, and the 
decision of such third party will be binding on all parties.  The expense of the third party shall be 
shared equally by the Employer and the Union. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 15 
 
CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGES 
 
A.  Wage Schedule 
 
-86  Wages shall be paid in accordance with the Wage Schedule as set forth in Appendices I 
through III, provided, however, an employee assigned to a classification will progress from one step 
to the next only if his/her performance is satisfactory.  An employee's performance will be presumed 
satisfactory unless he/she is notified to the contrary in writing by the Employer.  Any such pay 
progression increase shall take effect on the anniversary date. 
 

a.  Wages 

 

 

 

 
 

1.  Three (3) percent base wage increase effective December 16, 1999 for all employees 

except those in the exempted classifications, cited below. 

2.  Three (3) percent base wage increase effective December 16, 2000 for all employees. 

3.  One (1) percent base wage increase effective December 16, 2001 for all employees. 
 
For the first year of the agreement the following classification and employees holding this 
classification title will be exempted from and therefore not subject to the three (3) percent 
wage increases as cited in a. 1., above; in addition there shall be no increase to the starting 
or maximum rate. 
 
  Boiler Operator Trainee 
 
For the first year of the agreement the following classifications and employees holding 
this classification title will be exempted from and therefore not subject to the three (3) 
percent wage increases as cited in a. 1., above; in addition there shall be no increase to the 
starting rate. 
 
 

Power Plant Mechanic I 

16

 
Power Plant Technician I 
  Water Works Operator I 
 
4.  A Two (2) percent adjustment, on a one-time basis only, shall be made to 

the maximums of the following classifications effective December 16, 
1999: 

Stationary Engineer 1st 
Stationary Engineer 2nd 
Stationary Engineer 3rd 
Boiler Operator II 
Boiler Operator I  
Power Plant Technician III 
Power Plant Mechanic III 
Fuel Systems Operator III 
Power Plant Technician II 
Power Plant Mechanic II 
Fuel Systems Operator II 
Water Works Operator II 
 

b.  Special classification adjustment of fifteen (15) cents per hour will be added to the  
 
classification Stationary Engineer 2nd Class.  Employees holding this classification must be 
declared qualified to relieve employees holding 1st Class positions before receiving the 
adjustment. 

c.  A $225.00 tool allowance for maintenance series employees will be paid July 1 of  
each year of this Agreement. 

 

 

 

Any individual who is working out of his/her classification within Local 547 will receive the 

 
-87 
rate of that classification or his/her regular rate, whichever is the greater. 
 
B.  New, Changed, or Eliminated Classifications 
 
-88 
The Employer retains the right to eliminate, change, establish and evaluate classifications and 
establish the pay grades therefore provided, however, the classifications and the pay grades therefore, 
set forth in the Wage Schedule, and new or changed classifications which may be placed in the Wage 
Schedule, shall remain in effect during the term of this Agreement unless the job content of a 
classification is substantially changed. 
 
-89 
In the event a new classification is established or an existing classification is changed, the 
Employer shall place it in an existing pay grade in the Wage Schedule, or in a new pay grade, on the 
basis of the relative value of the elements of the new or changed classification in comparison with the 
 
 

17

elements  of  existing  classifications.  If  a  new  pay  grade  is  established,  it  shall  be  structured  to 
maintain the hourly rate differential between the lowest two pay grades or the highest two pay 
grades, in the Wage Schedule, as the case may be, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the Union 
and the Employer. 
 
C.  Procedure for Establishment of New or Changed Classifications and Placement in the Wage      
Schedule 
 
-90 
in the Wage Schedule as provided in Section B.: 
 

The following procedure will be followed whenever a new or changed classification is placed 

a.  The University shall provide the Union with a written classification description of the  
new or changed classification which shall describe the job content sufficiently to identify 
 
 
the classification.  

 

 

b.  Upon receipt of the Employer's description, a reasonable number of union officials may 
  meet with representatives of the Employer to discuss the new or changed classification 
 

and the placement in the Wage Schedule.  

c.  If there is disagreement with the place in the Wage Schedule, a grievance concerning  
 
compliance with Section B. of this Article may be processed through the Grievance and 
  Arbitration Procedures, provided it is submitted in writing at Step II of the Grievance    
Procedure within five (5) working days after the Union is afforded the opportunity to    
 
 
discuss the matter with the Employer.  If such a grievance is processed through the  
    Arbitration Procedure, the arbitrator shall have no power or authority to establish or  
 
 

 
change any wage, but only to determine whether placement in the Wage Schedule has 
been made in accordance with Section B. of this Article.  

A normal schedule of work for a full-time employee shall be eight (8) hours per day and  

 
 
ARTICLE 16 
 
WORK SCHEDULES 
 
-91 
forty (40) hours per week, excluding non-paid lunch periods.  This Section shall not be construed as 
and is not a guarantee of any hours of work per day or per week. 
 
-92 
The  Employer  will  give  an  employee  at  least  seven  (7)  calendar  days  notice  of  his/her 
assigned schedule of work, and as much notice as is practicable of any changes therein.  Changes for 
other than employees assigned as operational relief will not be made with less than seven (7) calendar 
days  notice  except  for  temporary  work  situations  caused  by  unforeseen  events  and  employee 
absences exceeding one work day.  For employees assigned to the day shift maintenance series, 
working hours will be Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
 
 

18

 
-93 
Lunch periods shall be scheduled as to time and duration by the Employer.  Lunch periods of 
thirty (30) minutes shall be unpaid. Employees who are not given time off from work for lunch 
periods will be permitted to lunch during working hours provided such lunching does not interfere 
with work or the orderly and efficient operation of the University. 
 
-94 
Except for employees when assigned to operational work at fixed duty stations, there may be 
a rest period when work can be interrupted which shall be taken at a time and place and in a manner 
determined by an employee's immediate supervisor.  Such rest period shall be with pay and shall not 
exceed fifteen (15) minutes for each four (4) hours of work.  The rest period is intended to be a recess 
to be preceded and followed by an extended work period.  Consequently it may not be used to cover 
an employee's late arrival to work or early departure, to extend the lunch period, nor may it be 
regarded as accumulative if not taken. 
 
-95 
All employees shall be at the place designated by their immediate supervisor, ready for work, 
at their starting time and shall remain at their work site and continue working until the end of their 
working period unless otherwise instructed or excused by their immediate supervisor. 
 
 
ARTICLE 17 
 
SHIFT PREMIUM 
 
-96 
to any employee who starts work on or after 2:30 p.m. and before 10:30 p.m. 
 
-97 
Effective December 16, 1993, a shift premium of one dollar and two cents  ($1.02) per hour 
shall be paid to any employee who starts work on or after 10:30 p.m. and before 6:30 a.m., and shall 
continue to be paid the premium if the employee is scheduled or assigned to work the concurrent day 
shift. 
  
An employee who works other than his/her scheduled hours shall continue to receive the 
-98 
applicable shift premium, if any, determined by his/her starting time, except if he/she works a full 
eight (8) hour shift, he/she shall be paid the shift premium for that shift, or the shift premium for 
his/her first eight (8) hours, whichever premium is greater. 
 
-99 
second or third shifts shall receive the appropriate premium pay. 
 
-100  The employee will not receive shift premium for hours for which he/she is paid but does not 
work such as but not limited to, Sick Leave, Vacation, Funeral Leave, Jury Duty, Personal Leave 
Day, etc. 
 
 
 

Effective December 16, 1993, a shift premium of ninety-two  (92) cents per hour shall be paid 

Employees who are normally assigned to work days and who are scheduled to work on the 

19

 
ARTICLE 18 
 
OVERTIME 
 
A.  Overtime Premium 
 
-101  An overtime premium computed at one and one-half times the employee's hourly rate will be 
paid for the time worked (1) in excess of eight (8) hours in a calendar day or (2) in excess of forty 
(40) hours in a calendar week or (3) on a shift which starts before the employee has had eight (8) 
hours off since his/her previous shift. 
 
B.  Pyramiding 
 
-102  Overtime premium shall not be pyramided, compounded or paid twice for the same time 
worked except for work performed on a holiday. 
 
C.  Scheduling 
 
-103  For the purpose of this article scheduling will be defined as follows: 
 

a.  If requested to work overtime, an employee will normally do so unless he/she is excused. 
  The Employer will endeavor to give employees advance notice of overtime assignments 
  when practicable under the circumstances.  An employee in the maintenance series will 
 

not be transferred to another classification for the purpose of avoiding overtime.  

 

 
his/her option, with the discretionary approval of the Employer, may work double shifts 

b.  Provided they have had eight (8) hours off in between occurrences, an employee, at  
 
  when overtime is required. 

 
D.  Distribution 
 
-104  Overtime within the seniority unit as defined in Article 7 shall be distributed as equitably as 
practicable among employees assigned to the same classifications within the seniority unit.  It shall 
not be necessary to call in an employee to work rather than extend the shift of an employee at work. 
 
-105  Employees who work overtime or who are assigned overtime and do not work, whether 
excused or not, shall be charged for the overtime in accordance with the practices as found in the 
Rules Governing Overtime for Power Plant Employees.  Any inequitable distribution will be rectified 
in the future scheduling of overtime. 
 
 
 
 
 

20

 
E.  Definitions 
        
-106  For the purposes of this Article and the computation of overtime premium the following 
definitions shall apply: 
 

  

a.  Shift Schedule 

                                                       
  
1.  First shift (Days):  
 

 

 

 

 

6:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.  

2.  Second shift (Afternoons):  

2:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m.  

       

3.  Third shift (Midnights):  

 

 l0:30 p.m. to 6:30 a.m.  

The shift schedules are as follows: 

 

 

 

Four days off, followed by seven midnights, then; two days off, followed by seven afternoons, 
then one day off, followed by a period of seven days.  During the week that begins with an after-
noon shift, the operators will work either five or six days depending on the number of operators 
available. 

 
 
ARTICLE 19 
 
CALL-IN AND REPORTING PAY 
 
A. Call-In 
 
-107 
An employee reporting for emergency duty at the Employer's request for work which 
he/she had not been notified of in advance and which is outside of and not continuous with his/her 
regular work period, shall be guaranteed at least three (3) hours pay and three (3) hours work at the 
rate of time-and one-half.  This paragraph shall apply when an employee is contacted away from the 
workplace for unscheduled emergency duty.  An employee contacted away from the work place and 
who begins work within three (3) hours of a regular shift starting time shall receive the full three 
hours call-in pay at time-and-one-half. 
 
When an employee has arrived at the workplace for a regularly scheduled shift and is then assigned 
to begin work early, this paragraph  does not apply.  If the employee is assigned to begin work early 
also completes the regular schedule of work, then the employee will be paid for actual time worked 
before the start of the regular shift at time-and-one-half, or a one-half-hour minimum at time-and-
one-half, whichever is greater. 
 
 
 
 

21

 
B.  Reporting 
 
-108  An employee who has not been notified in advance that no work is available and who reports 
for scheduled work will receive three (3) hours pay at his/her base rate of pay. 
 
 
ARTICLE 20 
 
ABSENCES 
 
-109   An employee is expected not to absent himself/herself from work for any reason other than 
personal  illness  without  making  prior  arrangements  before  the  start  of  his/her  shift  with  the 
supervisor.  Unless such prior arrangements are made, an employee who, for any reason fails to 
report for work must immediately notify the supervisor of his/her reason for being absent unless for 
unforeseen circumstances acceptable to the employer.  If the absence is to continue beyond the first 
day the employee must notify the supervisor on a daily basis unless otherwise arranged with and 
specifically approved by the supervisor.  Absences without proper notice, use of sick leave under 
false pretense and excessive absenteeism is subject to disciplinary action including termination. 
 
 
ARTICLE 21 
 
HOLIDAY PROVISIONS 
 
-110  The designated Holidays are as follows: 
 
Both Day and Shift Personnel 
 
     Memorial Day         
 
     Labor Day           
     Thanksgiving        
 
 

May 29, 2000    
Sept. 4, 2000    Sept. 3, 2001 
Nov. 23, 2000    
Nov. 24, 2000   

Nov. 22, 2001   
Nov. 23, 2001   

Nov. 28, 2002 
Nov. 29, 2002 

May  28, 2001   

May 27, 2002 

 

Sept. 2, 2002 

Thanksgiving 

 
Day Personnel 
 
     Independence Day  
 
 
 
 

Christmas           
     Christmas           
     New Years           
     New Years           
 
 
 
 

July 4, 2000 
 
Dec. 24, 1999    
Dec. 27, 1999    
Dec. 31, 1999    
Jan.  3, 2000     

July 4, 2001 
 
Dec. 25, 2000   
Dec. 26, 2000   
 
Jan. 1, 2001 
Jan.  2, 2001 
 

July 4, 2002 
Dec. 24, 2001 
Dec. 25, 2001 
Dec. 31, 2001 
Jan.  1, 2002 

22

 
Shift Personnel 
 

 
July 4, 2001 
Dec. 24, 2000   
Dec. 25, 2000   
Dec. 31, 2000   
Jan. 1, 2001 
 

July 4, 2002 
Dec. 24, 2001 
Dec. 25, 2001 
Dec. 31, 2001 
Jan.  1, 2002 

 
July 4, 2000 
Dec. 24, 1999    
Dec. 25, 1999    
Dec. 31, 1999    
Jan.  1, 2000     

Independence Day  
 
Christmas           
 
     Christmas           
 
     New Years           
     New Years           
 
 
-111  Whenever one of the holidays falls on a Saturday and the employee does not work on this 
day or on a scheduled day off in the employee's work week and no other day is observed as a holiday 
by the Employer, the employee will receive an alternate day off with pay, the time to be arranged 
with his/her supervisor.  Whenever any of the above holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday 
shall be observed as the designated holiday, except for the day before or after Christmas Day and the 
day before or after New Year's Day which shall be considered separate each year. 
 
-112 
If the employee fails to work on a holiday when assigned or is absent on either his/her 
regularly scheduled working day immediately preceding or his/her regularly scheduled working day 
immediately following the holiday he/she will not be paid for the holiday unless his/her absence is 
excused because of personal sickness or injury or other extraordinary circumstances beyond the 
control of the employee which cannot be corrected in time for him/her to meet his/her employment 
obligation. 
 
-113 
If an employee terminates his/her employment for reasons other than retirement, he/she will 
not receive pay for holidays occurring after the last day worked even though the holidays may fall 
within the period of his/her projected terminal vacation leave. 
 
-114 
In addition to eight (8) hours holiday pay an employee who works on the holiday will be paid 
two (2) times his/her hourly rate and shift premium if applicable but in no event shall he/she receive 
more than a total of three (3) times his/her hourly rate and shift premium if applicable for the time 
worked. 
 
 
ARTICLE 22 
 
SICK LEAVE 
 
-115  Every regular full-time employee shall accumulate and be credited with 104 hours of paid sick 
leave per year, to be credited at the rate of four (4) hours for each completed biweekly payroll period. 
 Employees may use sick leave after they have completed their first month of  
service.  Maximum accrual is 1,200 hours. 
 
-116  Sick leave shall be available for use by employees for the following purposes: 
 
 

23

a.  Acute personal illness or incapacity over which the employee has no reasonable control.  

b.  Absence from work because of exposure to contagious disease which, according to 
public  health standards, would constitute a danger to the health of others by the employee's 
 
 

 
attendance at work.  

c.  Medical and dental care or treatment to the extent of time required to complete such  
 

 
appointments when it is not possible to arrange such appointments for non-duty hours. 

d.  Illness or disability associated with pregnancy when a physician indicates that the  
 

employee is unable to perform all of the duties of her job. 

 

e.  Absence from work because of illness in the immediate family, not to exceed twenty-four 
(24) hours sick leave per year.  Immediate family is defined as:  spouse, children, parents 
and anyone living within the household of the employee.  An additional sixteen (16) 
hours may be used for the care of dependent children.  The total number of hours shall 
not exceed forty (40). 

 

 

 

 

 

 
-117  All employees shall accumulate sick leave from the date they are hired. 
  
-118  A seniority employee who suffers injury compensable under the Workers’ Compensation 
Act shall continue to receive his/her regular rate for time lost during the first seven (7) days not 
covered by the Workers’ Compensation Act provided he/she follows the instruction of a physician as 
determined  by  the  University,  and  provided  he/she  returns  to  work  not  later  than  the  time 
recommended by an appropriate medical authority.  In the event of dispute, the Medical Dispute 
clause of this Agreement shall apply as regards to the settlement of such dispute.  Following the first 
seven (7) days, such seniority employees shall be paid the difference between his/her regular wages 
and payment received under provisions of the Act, to be deducted from accumulated sick leave until 
his/her sick leave is exhausted. 
 
-119  Employees who have exhausted their sick leave credit and are still unable to return to work 
may be paid for any unused vacation credits. 
 
-120  Employees who are laid off shall have available any unused sick leave previously earned, 
effective at the time they are recalled. 
 
-121  Employees who leave to enter the Armed Forces of the United States under the provisions of 
 a selective service act, who are members of the Armed Forces and are called to active duty, or who 
enlist in the Armed Forces during a declared national emergency shall, upon reemployment by the 
Employer, have available any unused sick leave previously earned; provided that such reemployment 
takes place within ninety (90) days after discharge or release from active duty in the Armed Forces. 
 
 

24

 
-122  An employee using sick leave during a period that includes a scheduled holiday will be paid 
his/her base rate of pay for the holiday. He/She cannot be paid for both on the same day, nor will 
he/she be charged for a day of sick leave. 
 
-123  Each supervisor shall be responsible for reviewing employee requests for sick leave and may 
with prior notice to the employee request a statement from the employee's personal physician or at 
the  University's  request  and  expense,  a  physician  of  the  University's  choice  concerning  the 
employee's disability.  An employee is required to give prompt notification to the supervisor of the 
necessity for taking sick leave.  Notification is to be provided by the employee before the beginning 
of the employee's shift so that the supervisor can make arrangements for the work schedule.  An 
employee shall notify the supervisor of absences in accordance with Article 20. 
 
-124  All payments for sick leave shall be made at the employee's current base rate of pay.  Accrued 
sick leave credits shall be used prior to receiving leave for illness or disability. 
 
 
ARTICLE 23 
 
VACATIONS 
 
-125  Vacations with pay shall be credited at the end of each month based on an employee's length 
of continuous full-time employment as shown in the following plan:  
 
                             
        
      Service Months         
 

 
Accrual      Accrual    Max Accrual 

  Annual 

*Special 

 96 hrs.  

120 hrs.  

8 hrs.      
per mo.  

12 hrs.       144 hrs.     180 hrs.  
per mo.  

     6 months 
 
     7th month thru         
   60th month              
 
    61st month thru       
   120th month            
 
    121st month            
                          
 
 
*Employees are expected to take their annual accrual each year.  When this is not feasible, they may 
make special arrangements with the Director of Utilities to accrue additional time but in no circum-
stances  will  the  accrual  exceed  the  amount  shown  in  the  schedule  under "Special Maximum 
Accrual." 
 
 

16 hrs.        192 hrs.     225 hrs.  
per mo.  

25

Completion of  

 

48 hrs.  

 
-126  Vacation will not accrue during an approved leave of absence without pay or layoff, while on 
regular Workers’ Compensation, during an extended military leave of absence, during a terminal 
vacation period or in excess of the Special Maximum Accrual. 
 
-127  An employee's vacation pay shall be at his/her base rate. 
 
-128 
If a University designated holiday falls within an employee's vacation, he/she will be paid 
his/her base rate for the holiday and will not be charged for the  vacation.  When an employee 
terminates he/she shall be paid for any unused vacation but will not be paid for the University desig-
nated holidays which may fall within the terminal vacation period, unless the employee is on a 
vacation period immediately preceding retirement, in which case the Employee shall receive holiday 
payment. 
 
-129  An approved leave of absence for military service will not be counted as a break in the 
employee's service record when determining his/her vacation allowance under the progressive  
vacation plan.  All other leaves of absence will be considered a break in an employee's service record 
in determining vacation allowance. 
 
-130  An employee may take his/her vacation at any time in the course of the calendar year as long 
as it conforms with the requirements of the individual department.  Vacations taken for at least one 
week at a time will be given preference over shorter vacations.  It is permissible for an employee to 
vary his/her schedule if approved by his/her supervisor.  Vacation may not be taken in less than 8 
hour increments.  Overhaul schedules will be posted on or about March 1 of each year and vacation 
requests must be submitted by March 31 for the period April 15 to April 15 of the following year. 
The Employer will review the vacation requests and will publish an approved schedule by April 15. 
Vacations for maintenance series employees, except coal handlers, may be limited during Boiler and 
Turbine overhaul periods. 
 
-131 
week blocks) will take precedence over shorter periods.  If a conflict still exists, the seniority 
employee will be given his/her choice as follows: 
 

In the event of a dispute regarding the choice of vacation time, requests for five-days (1 

A.  For the operations series, classification seniority will be used to make vacation 

determinations within a classification title. 

 

 

 
 

B.  For all other employees, the seniority used for resolving vacation conflicts shall be the 

earliest hire date in the series: 

1.  Maintenance series (Power Plant Mechanic I, II or III) 
2.  Technician series (Power Plant Technician I, II or III) 
3.  Fuel Series (Power Plant Helper or Fuel Systems Operator I or II) 
4.  Waterworks Series (Waterworks Operator I or II) 

26

 

  
 

24 hours  

 6 hours  
 0 hours  

 
ARTICLE 24 
 
PERSONAL LEAVE DAY 
 
-132  Personal leave with pay is granted to regular, full-time employees for the purpose of attending 
to, or caring for personal matters.  Each employee, effective 7/1/89 and 7/1/90, shall be credited with 
three (3) personal leave days.  If hired after July a fractional amount shall be credited, as follows: 
 
                   July through December  
                   January through March     12 hours  
                   April through May          
                   June   
 
-133  The personal leave day, or fraction thereof, credited to each full-time, continuous employee 
shall be utilized and charged to him/her in increments of not less than one (1) full hour. 
 
-134  The personal leave day, or any fraction thereof, shall not be utilized during an absence for 
vacation, sick leave or during any other leave of absence. 
 
-135  No carry-over of unused personal leave day credit from one fiscal year to another shall be 
allowed. 
 
-136  The employee shall obtain the approval of his/her Supervisor prior to being absent for all, or 
any part, of the three (3) personal leave days. 
 
 
ARTICLE 25 
 
FUNERAL LEAVE 
 
If death occurs among members of an employee's immediate family, the employee, upon 
-137 
notification to the supervisor, will be excused from work for three (3) consecutive work days without 
loss of pay to attend the funeral and make other necessary arrangements.  In the case of death of the 
employee's or the employee's spouse's uncle, aunt, nephew or niece, the employee will be excused 
from work without loss of pay for one (1) day, the day of the funeral, to attend the funeral. 
 
-138  Definition  of  employee's  immediate  family:    The  employee's  immediate family shall be 
interpreted as including:  spouse, child, parent, sister, brother, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-
law,  mother-in-law,  daughter-in-law,  son-in-law,  grandparent,  grandparent-in-law,  grandchild, 
stepparent, half brother, half sister, stepbrother, and stepsister.     
 
 
 
 

 

    

27

 
-139  During an employee's assigned shift, permission will be granted without loss of pay to a 
reasonable number of employees in a unit who wish to be excused form work to attend the funeral of 
a fellow employee or former employee provided they return to work after the funeral.  Employees 
who serve as pallbearers at a funeral of a fellow employee or former employee will be paid during the 
time they must be off the job. 
 
 
ARTICLE 26 
 
JURY DUTY 
 
-140  An employee who loses time from work during his/her normal schedule of work because of 
jury duty shall be paid for such time lost at his/her base rate of pay.  Jury duty fees shall be offset 
against such pay. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, such jury duty shall be considered 
time worked.  The employee shall furnish the Employer a written statement from the court showing 
the days and time of jury duty and the amount of jury fees he/she was eligible to receive for each 
day.  The employee will report for available work when released from jury duty. 
 
-141  Whenever  practicable  and  notwithstanding  the  then  existing  schedule or work of other 
employees, an employee while on jury duty will be assigned to the day shift. 
 
 
ARTICLE 27 
 
UNION EDUCATION LEAVE 
 
-142  Leaves of absence with pay shall be granted to employees who are elected or selected by the 
Union to attend educational class conducted or arranged for by the Union pursuant to the following 
conditions: 
 

a.  Requests by the Union for authorization of union education leave for any employee shall 
be submitted in writing so as to be received by the Director of Utilities at least fourteen 
 
 
(14) calendar days prior to the date such leave is to commence. 

 

 

 
 
 
 

b.  No more than two (2) employees shall be authorized to be on union education leave at 
 

any one time. 

 

c.  Maximum number of working days of authorized union education leave shall not exceed 
 
ten (10) working days for all employees collectively during each twelve (12) consecutive 
  month period commencing on the effective date of this Agreement. 

28

ARTICLE 28 
 
PERSONAL LEAVE 
 
-143  Leaves  of  absences  without  pay  up  to  three  (3)  months  may  be  granted  in  cases  of 
exceptional need for those employees who have acquired seniority under this Agreement.  Leaves 
may be granted for such reasons as settlement of an estate, serious illness of a member of the 
employee's family, child care, temporary termination of the employee's work, or an extended trip, but 
not for the purpose of obtaining employment elsewhere.  Leaves of absence for like causes may be 
extended for additional three (3) month periods, but the total time shall not exceed one (1) year.  If a 
personal leave of absence without pay, because of temporary termination of the employee's work, 
lasts for a period of thirty (30) days or more, the employee may be required to take another physical 
examination before returning to work. 
 
 
ARTICLE 29 
 
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR ILLNESS OR DISABILITY 
 
-144  A non-probationary employee who (1) is unable to work because of personal sickness or 
injury and (2) has exhausted sick leave payments and vacation payments shall be granted a leave of 
absence without pay upon furnishing evidence of disability satisfactory to the Employer.  The leave 
of absence shall be for the period of continuing disability, but not to exceed six months, unless 
extended by the Employer.  Extensions will not be denied unreasonably, but in no case shall a leave 
and extensions exceed two years or the employee's University seniority, whichever period of time is 
the lesser.  The leave of absence may be terminated at any time if the employee fails to furnish 
satisfactory evidence of continuing disability. 
 
 
ARTICLE 30 
 
MILITARY LEAVE 
 
A.  Short Tours of Duty 
 
-145  Regular employees who belong to the National Guard, United States Reserve Corps, or other 
Federal or State military organizations, will be allowed the normal fifteen (15) calendar days leave of 
absence when ordered to active duty for training.  In the event these same employees are ordered to 
active duty for the purpose of handling civil disorders, they will be allowed a maximum of ten (10) 
additional calendar days leave of absence during a fiscal year for said disorders.  The Employer will 
pay the difference between the employee's military pay and base rate of pay, if his/her military pay is 
less.  If the employee takes military leave during his/her vacation, he/she will receive only his/her 
vacation pay. 
 
 

29

B.  Extended Service 
 
-146  Upon application, a military leave of absence (without pay) will be granted to employees who 
are employed in other than temporary positions.  This applies to employees who are inducted 
through a selective service system or voluntary enlistment, or if the employee is called through 
membership in the National Guard or reserve component into the Armed Forces of the United States. 
 
C.  Educational Leave of Absence for Veterans 
 
-147  Employees who are reinstated in accordance with the Universal Military Training Act, as 
amended, and other applicable laws and regulations, will be granted leaves of absence for a period 
equal to their seniority, but not to exceed two (2) years (without pay) in order to attend school full 
time under applicable federal laws in effect on the date of this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 31 
 
LEAVE FOR UNION BUSINESS 
 
-148  Members of the Union elected to local Union positions or selected by the Union to do work 
which takes them from their employment with the Employer shall at the written request of the Union 
receive temporary leaves of absence without pay for periods not to exceed two (2) years or the term 
of office, whichever may be shorter. 
 
If the member's position or work for which these leaves were granted is terminated for any 
-149 
reason,  the  Union  shall  within  ten  (10)  calendar  days  notify  the  Employer  in  writing  of  the 
termination  date.  The  member  shall  within  the  same  ten  (10)  calendar  day  period  advise  the 
Employer in writing of his/her intent to return to the University and shall return to work within thirty 
(30) calendar days of the termination date or forfeit all rights of employment with the Employer. 
 
-150 
If the leave of absence exceeds one (1) year it will be necessary for the employee to take a 
physical examination at the Health Center before returning to work.  Not more than one employee at 
a time will be granted a Union leave of absence. 
 
 
ARTICLE 32 
 
GENERAL CONDITIONS 
 
A.  Leave of Absence with Pay 
 
-151  Leaves of absence with pay may be granted for purposes as described in Articles 21 through 
27.  An employee shall accrue sick leave credits and vacation credits during a leave of absence with 
 
 

30

pay.  His/her University benefits will and employee optional benefits may continue for the duration 
of the leave. 
 
-152  All requests of leaves of absence shall be made with the employee's immediate supervisor. 
 
-153  A record of vacation, sick leave and personal leave balances shall be maintained for the 
seniority unit by classification and posted monthly 
 
B.  Leave of Absence Without Pay (Including Layoff) 
 
-154  Regular employees who have completed their probationary period are eligible for unpaid 
leaves of absence.  They may be taken for the reasons specified in Articles 28 through 31. 
 
-155  All leaves of absence must be approved by the supervisor, administrative head of the unit, 
and Human Resource Services. 
 
-156  During an unpaid leave of absence or layoff, an employee will not accrue vacation or sick 
leave nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provided by this Agreement. 
 
-157  Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shall accumulate 
during leaves of absence or extensions, and layoffs. 
 
-158  Any employee who obtains a leave of absence under false pretense or uses the leave for 
purposes other than for which it was obtained shall be subject to immediate discharge. 
 
-159  The employees must check with the  Benefits Office about maintaining the employee group 
life insurance and health insurance during leaves of absence subject to and consistent with these 
plans. 
 
 
ARTICLE 33 
 
RETURN TO ACTIVE EMPLOYMENT 
 
-160  Return  to  active  employment  prior  to  the  expiration  of  any  leave  of  absence,  or  any 
extension, shall be at the option of the Employer. The Employer, at its option and without cost to the 
employee, may require that a physician or physicians of its choosing examine the employee before 
returning him/her to active employment.  An employee returning from a leave of absence will be 
placed  in  his/her  former  classification  or  equivalent classification unless the Employer's or the 
employee's circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so.  In 
such event the employee will be placed in an equivalent classification or other as the circumstances 
dictate. 
 
 
 

31

ARTICLE 34 
 
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 
 
-161  The University agrees to pay the tuition cost (up to their current hourly credit costs for 
M.S.U.) as well as registration fees for members of the bargaining unit who enroll in job related 
courses through M.S.U. or Lansing Community College or from those institutions accredited by 
generally recognized accrediting agencies and/or are listed in the Educational directory of the  U.S. 
Department  of  Education.    In  addition,  institutions  approved  under  such  government  training 
programs as the G.I. Bill of Rights will also be accepted.  
 
-162  Approval of courses must be secured prior to enrollment through the Director of Utilities.  
The Union may request a special conference with the Director of Employee Relations should a 
disagreement arise over this provision.  Said conference will be conducted on a timely basis. 
 
-163  Full-time employees may apply for reimbursement of tuition of up to two (2) classes up to 
five (5) credits for two (2) semesters and up to two (2) classes up to four (4) credits for the remaining 
semester for a total of fourteen (14) credits per academic year. 
 
-164  Non-credit Courses and Non-credit Instructional Activity (NCIA) 
 

Except as specifically provided below, all general provisions of educational assistance apply. 

 

 

 

 

 
 

a.  Employees  may  apply  for  reimbursement  and  released  time  for  one  non-credit 
 
instructional activity (NCIA) for one (1) semester and two (2) non-credit instructional   
activities (NCIA) for the remaining semester.  For this purpose, semesters shall be  
 
 
 
defined as: 

Fall:    September - December 
Spring:  January - May 
Summer:  Mid-May - August    

 
 
 
 
b.  Only job-related NCIA's which are offered through the MSU Lifelong Education  
 
  Davenport College, Lansing Community College, High School Adult Education  
 

 
Programs (e.g., Continuing Education, Evening College), M.S.U.  Computer Laboratory, 
 
Programs or other Employer approved educational/training programs are reimbursable. 

c.  If an NCIA or non-credit course only is being taken during a semester, reimbursement 
will not exceed $200.  For an NCIA, up to twenty-four (24) hours released time may be 
granted.  The released time for an NCIA may occur in one week or be spread throughout the 
semester. 

32

 

d.  If an NCIA is being taken during the same semester as a course as per Paragraph 164a, 
the total reimbursement will not exceed the MSU rate per credit for five (5) credit   hours for 
two (2) semesters and four (4) credit hours the remaining semester.  The employee may apply 
for released time either for courses or the NCIA's, but not for both. 

e.  Approved application for non-credit and/or non-MSU courses should be retained by the 
employee and submitted with verification of successful course completion (certificate from 
the course signed by the instructor or an NCIA certification of successful completion form 
from Benefits Office signed by the instructor, or a copy of the official grade card), and proof 
of course cost for non-credit courses (canceled check or receipt), within 15 working days of 
successful course completion or receipt of grade. 

 
-165  Course Fee Courtesy  -  Full-time employees with sixty (60) full-time equivalent service 
months  are  eligible  for  the  course-fee courtesy program as it is provided to the faculty of the 
University.     
 
 
ARTICLE 35 
 
HEALTH CARE COVERAGE 
 
-166  Regular probationary employees may enroll for health care coverage within sixty (60) days of 
their employment date.  Employees may enroll their eligible dependents within thirty-one  (31) days 
of acquiring them. Failure to enroll within time limits will result in no health care coverage until open 
enrollment or application is made.  The employee can select any plan that he/she is eligible for that is 
now being offered to the employees by the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Master Medical, Blue Care 
Network/Health Central (HMO) or Physicians Health Plan (PHP). 
 
-167  For a regular full-time employee who has single subscriber coverage the Employer will pay 
the full amount of the present single subscriber rate toward the total monthly premium cost of the 
basic  Health  Care  Coverage  regardless  of  the  plan  (Blue  Cross/Blue  Shield,  Blue  Care 
Network/Health  Central  or  Physicians  Health  Plan)  in  which  such  employee  is  covered  and 
regardless of the option such employee has exercised within that plan. 
 
-168  The Employer will continue to fully pay the single person subscriber rate for the selected 
plan.  For two person or family coverage, the Employer will fully pay the Blue Cross/Blue Shield 
Master Medical premium plus $3.00 prescription rider.  The Employer will continue to pay for the 
single, two-person or family premiums for the PHP and Health Central coverages for the term of this 
Agreement. 
 

1a.   Effective December 16, 1994, employees enrolled in the Physicians Health Plan will 
assume a five (5) dollar "Point-of-Service" co-pay and a four (4) dollar prescription drug 
co-pay. 

 
 

33

 b.    Effective December 15, 1996, employees enrolled in the Blue Care Network Health 
Central Plan will assume a ten (10) dollar "Point-of-Service" co-pay and a five (5) dollar 
prescription drug co-pay. 

 
-169  The Employer will be permitted to competitively bid its health insurance program.  The carrier 
selected will provide benefits equivalent to or better than present coverage.  This provision will only 
be exercised should, a) the current carrier(s) no longer provide the negotiated benefit program, or b) 
the current carrier(s) benefits are provided at an excessive premium cost  
over alternate carriers.   
 
The parties will meet to discuss this provision and all relevant information will be made available and 
verified prior to any change(s). 
 
-170 

A.  A dental insurance program will be provided to all regular full-time and part-time Local 

547 members. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  b.   Effective December 16, 1994, employees enrolled in the Blue Care Network Health  
 
  Central Plan will assume a five (5) dollar "Point-of-Service" co-pay and a three  (3) 

dollar prescription drug co-pay. 

2a.   Effective December 15, 1996, employees enrolled in the Physicians Health Plan will 
 
   assume a ten (10) dollar "Point-of-Service" co-pay and a five (5) dollar prescription drug 

co-pay. 

B.  Fees for the below mentioned services will be covered on a usual, customary, and  
 

reasonable basis with a fifty (50) percent co-payment. 

 

1.  Basic diagnostic, preventative, emergency, palative, restorative, oral surgery,  
 
endodontics, periodontics, and prosthodontics subject to a $600 annual maximum per 
individual. 
 
2.  Orthodontics subject to a $600 lifetime maximum per individual. 

 
C.  The  dental  insurance  program  benefits  will  be  provided consistent with the carrier's 

conditions and procedures. 

34

 

    

Less than 60 
 
60 but less than 65        
65 but less than 682  
 
Age 68 ½  or over         

To age 65 
42 years 
To age 70 
1 year 

ARTICLE 36 
 
DISABILITY PLANS 
 
A.  Long-Term Disability Plan 
 
-171  A University-paid Long-Term Disability Plan will be granted to all regular full-time employees 
with at least 12 continuous full-time equivalent (FTE) service months. 
 
-172  The LTD Program provides, after a minimum six (6) month disability waiting period, for a 
continuation of the monthly wage equal to 60 percent of the monthly base rate of pay, up to a 
maximum benefit of $3,000, including any offsets, e.g. benefits from Social Security or Workers’ 
Compensation programs. 
 
-173  The LTD Program includes a 3 percent cost of living rider and a $50 per month minimum 
benefit.  Benefits are payable as provided below: 
 

Disability Commences 

Duration of Benefits 

 
-174  At the Employer's expense he/she may continue to participate in the Employee-Paid Life, 
Health Care, and Dental Coverage. 
 
-175  For additional information about specific disability plan provisions, contact the Benefits 
Office. 
 
B.  Extended Disability Plan 
      
-176  Eligibility - Regular employees with at least sixty (60) continuous full-time equivalent service 
months are eligible for extended disability leave. 
 
-177  Usage - In cases which are expected to result in total disability, eligible employees will be 
granted extended disability leave with full pay and benefits for up to six (6) months from last day 
worked.  Thereafter the remaining aggregate of all paid leave credits will be exhausted before the LTD 
program begins.  However, in no case will LTD benefits begin sooner than six (6) months from the 
date of disability. 
 
 
 
 
 

35

C.  Workers’ Compensation (Long Term) 
 
-178  An employee who is receiving regular Workers’ Compensation for a period in excess of six 
(6) months shall continue, at the Employer's expense, Employee-Paid Life, Health Care and Dental 
Coverage for the period covered by Workers’ Compensation.  If it is determined by the Benefits 
Office that the injured employee will be off work in excess of six (6) months, the above benefit may 
be implemented upon such determination without requiring premium payments from the affected 
employee. 
 
 
ARTICLE 37 
 
EXPANDED LIFE PLAN 
 
-179  The Employer will provide, at no employee cost, a fully paid life plan to all regular full-time 
employees at the time of hire. 
 
-180  This program will provide a life benefit in the case of death of an eligible employee on active 
duty status (including unpaid leaves of absence for 180 days or less).  The benefit provided is equal 
to one times the annual wage (i.e., the basic hourly rate times 2080) up to a fifty thousand-dollar 
($50,000) maximum.  Payment for leave accruals shall be made in accordance with MSU Policy. 
 
-181  The employee may designate a beneficiary if desired; if none is designated the life insurance 
benefit payment will be made to the beneficiary under the Employee-Paid Life Program if enrolled; 
otherwise payment will be made in one sum to the survivors in the first surviving class of those that 
follow:  Your (a) spouse; (b) children; (c) parents; or (d) brothers and sisters.  If none survives, 
payment will be made in one sum to your estate. 
 
 
ARTICLE 38 
 
EMPLOYEE-PAID LIFE    
 
-182 
If coverage is desired, the University will make available to regular full-time employees an 
optional Life program.  The program is entirely funded from employee premiums and rates are 
subject to future group experience.  The coverage is decreasing term with no cash or loan value and 
coverage may be selected up to $187,500 depending upon age and the plan selected. 
 
-183  Complete information concerning the Employee-Paid Life Plan is contained in a booklet 
which may be obtained from the Benefits Office. 
 
 
 
 
 

36

ARTICLE 39 
 
RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
 
A.  TIAA-CREF Retirement Program 
 
-184  Michigan State University provides a retirement program with the Teachers Insurance and 
Annuity Association (TIAA) and its companion organization, College Retirement Equities Fund 
(CREF), Fidelity Investments and the Vanguard Group or other retirement programs made available 
through the University and selected by the employee. 
 
-185  Eligibility and Participation - Regular full-time employees are eligible for participation in 
accordance with the following policies: 
 

a.  The program with University matching contribution is optional to employees under age 
35 with at least twenty-four (24) FTE service months or who are over age 62 at the time of 
employment. 

b.  The program is required as a condition of employment for employees who have attained 

age 35 and have twenty-four (24) FTE service months. 

 

 

c.  Once required participation commences, it is not possible to withdraw from the base 

retirement options while employed at the University. 

 
-186  Premium Contributions - The base Retirement options made available through the University 
is  financed  by  a  five  (5)  percent  deduction  from  the  employee’s  check  with  the  University 
contributing ten (10) percent on all wages paid. 
 
-187  Complete details concerning the provisions of the University's base retirement options are 
outlined in a brochure which may be obtained from the Benefits Office. 
 
B.  Retirement for Employees Hired Prior to January 1, 1973 
 
-188  Effective January 1, 1973, the University Retirement Program ceased to exist.  However, to 
insure  that  no  employee  lost  credit  for  prior  years  of  service,  the  following  guidelines  were 
established to provide that an employee will receive no less than what an improved plan formula 
would give him or her upon retirement. 
 
-189  Those persons employed prior to January 1, 1973, who were 55 years of age or older and/or 
had 25 years of service on January 1, 1973, could elect to remain subject to the improved University 
Plan formula described below. 
 

 
 

37

-190  The formula governing the old Retirement Plan was improved by basing pensions on an 
amount, equal to the highest three (3) year average earnings, multiplied by 2% for each year of 
service, with a $3,600 ceiling. 
 
-191  For employees participating in TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available 
through the University with a University contribution, this new formula will be applied for each 
employee at retirement and will become the minimum received by the employee. 
 
-192  The annuity purchased by MSU's contributions to TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement 
programs  made  available  through  the  University  will  be  compared  to  the  pension  amount  as 
computed in 190 above, and the employee will receive the larger of the two figures.  Employee 
contributions (retroactive to 1-1-73) will be available as an additional annuity provided the employee 
meets the minimum retirement requirements. 
 
-193  Those employees not participating in TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made 
available through the University will have their retirement figured solely on the improved formula 
plus a 10% addition added to the base pension prior to actuarial reduction or the selection of a 
survivor option. 
 
-194  Employees  who  terminate  without  meeting  the  minimum provisions for retirement will 
receive a retirement pension solely from the contributions made to their individual TIAA-CREF 
annuity contract and/or other retirement programs made available through the University, consistent 
with the provisions of those contracts. 
 
C.  University Retirement 
 
-195  University Retirement Defined - University retirement shall be defined as 1) attainment of age 
62 with 15 years of employment, or 2) at any age with 25 years of employment. Interruptions in 
employment of less than one (1) year's duration shall not constitute a break in service as it pertains to 
retirement. An employee returning after twelve (12) months of her/his termination from University 
employment shall, after five (5) additional years of employment, receive credit for all past seniority 
for the purpose of retirement only.   With proper documentation, reemployed employees, after five 
(5) years of service, will be granted credit for all past seniority upon application to Human Resource 
Services. 
 
-196  Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible to maintain 
group health and dental coverage and receive the Employer contribution.  Employees participating in 
the Employee-Paid Life Plan at the time of retirement and who were enrolled prior to July 1, 1976, 
shall receive a $2,000 life insurance benefit fully paid by the Employer. 
 
-197  An employee who retires under the definition in paragraph 198 shall be paid for fifty (50) 
percent of his/her unused sick leave, but not to exceed a maximum of twelve hundred (1200) hours 
as of the effective date of separation. 
 
 

38

 
-198  An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in paragraph 198 but  
has at least five (5) years, but less than ten (10) years of continuous service and has attained 65 years  
of age at the time of his/her separation shall be paid fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave  
as of the effective date of separation.  An employee who does not meet the definition of University  
Retirement in paragraph 198 but has at least ten (10) years of continuous service and has attained  
65 years of age at the time of his/her separation shall be paid one hundred (100) percent of his/her  
unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation but not to exceed a maximum of one hundred  
(100) days, unless he/she has received a University contribution to TIAA-CREF in which case he/she  
will be paid as in paragraph 198 above.  Prorated longevity payments shall be made to those  
employees who retire under the definition of University Retirement in paragraph 198 prior to  
October first of any year.  This also applies to those employees not under the definition of University  
Retirement in paragraph 198 but who are 65 years of age at the time of their separation.  Such pro 
rated payments as indicated above shall be based on the number of calendar months of full-time  
service credited to an employee from the preceding October first to the date of retirement or  
separation and shall be made as soon as practicable thereafter. 
 
 
ARTICLE 40 
 
SPECIAL CONFERENCES 
 
-199  Special Conferences to discuss important matters but not for the settlement of grievances will 
be arranged between the local Union Business Representative or his/her designated representative 
and the Employer or its designated representative upon request of either party.  Such meetings shall 
be between at least two representatives of the Employer and at least two representatives of the Union. 
 Arrangements for such Special Conferences shall be made in advance and an agenda of the matters 
to be taken up at the meeting shall be presented at the time the Conference is requested.  Matters 
taken up in Special Conferences shall be confined to those included in the agenda.  The members of 
the Union shall not lose time or pay for time spent in such Special Conferences.  This meeting may 
be attended by the Business Representative of Local 547. 
 
 
ARTICLE 41 
 
SUPERVISION WORKING 
 
-200 
work in any job classification of a bargaining unit; however, it is understood that occasionally  
management personnel are required to perform manual tasks such as in emergency situations when 
regular employees are not immediately available, supervisory employees may be required to perform  
work within specific job classifications.  The same thing is true when operational difficulties are  
encountered or in the testing of materials.  Likewise, instruction or training of employees may well  
 
 

It is the policy of the Employer that foremen and supervisory employees shall not perform  

39

include demonstrating proper methods of accomplishing the tasks assigned and no dispute over the  
policy stated above shall be occasioned by such demonstration.  In those situations, the Union agrees  
there is no violation of the policy herein stated. 
 
 
ARTICLE 42 
 
WORK BY OTHER EMPLOYEES 
 
-201  Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted to interfere with the Employer's right to assign 
employees outside of the bargaining unit to perform work in the bargaining unit when necessary in 
accordance with past practice. 
 
 
ARTICLE 43 
 
MAINTENANCE OF CONDITIONS 
 
-202  Full-time employees have the privilege of purchasing season tickets for employee and spouse 
at  employee  rates  for  all  home  football  games  and  for  certain  other  home  athletic  events  in 
accordance with rules and regulations established from time to time by the Employer. 
 
-203  Full-time employees have the privilege of using the University library in accordance with rules 
and regulations established from time to time by the Employer. 
 
-204  Full-time employees have the privilege of using the Intramural facilities and the golf course at 
employee  rates  in  accordance  with  rules  and  regulations  established  from  time  to  time  by  the 
Employer. 
 
-205  Where the wearing of uniforms by employees is required, they shall be furnished by the 
Employer.  The laundering of such uniforms will be without charge to the employees provided the 
uniforms can be laundered in the University Laundry. 
 
-206  Those employees whose regular duties require special protective clothing will have such items 
furnished by the Employer and the employee will be required to wear such protective clothing when 
performing those duties.  Leatherface gloves will be supplied on an exchange basis. 
 
-207  Broken  and  worn-out  tools  turned  in  to  the  Supervisor  Maintenance  Operations  by 
maintenance series personnel will be replaced. 
 
-208  The current past practice concerning wash-up time shall be maintained. 
 
 
 
 

40

 
ARTICLE 44 
 
SAVINGS CLAUSE 
 
-209 
If any provision of this Agreement, or any supplement thereto, is found invalid by operation 
of law or by any board or court competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any 
provision should be permanently restrained by any such court, the remainder of this Agreement, and 
any supplements thereto, shall remain in full force and effect, and the Employer and the Union, at the 
request  of  either  party,  shall  enter  into  negotiations  for  the  purpose  of  arriving  at  a  mutually 
satisfactory replacement for such provision or supplement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 45 
 
WAIVER 
 
-210  The Employer and the Union acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this 
Agreement each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with 
respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that 
the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and 
opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.  Therefore, the Employer and the Union for the life of 
this Agreement each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and agrees that the other shall not 
be obligated, to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this 
Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this 
Agreement,  even  though  such  subject  or  matter  may  not  have  been  within  the  knowledge  or 
contemplation of either or both parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this Agreement. 
 
 
ARTICLE 46 
 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS 
 
-211  The provisions herein contained together with the memorandums of understanding and the 
appendices hereunto attached constitute the entire Agreement between the parties. 
 
 
ARTICLE 47 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS 
 
-212  All supplemental agreements shall be subject to the approval of the Employer and the Union. 
 
 
 

41

ARTICLE 48 
 
RATIFICATION 
 
-213  The Union agrees to submit this Agreement to the employees of the bargaining units covered 
by this Agreement for ratification by them by February 21, 2000, and the Union will recommend to 
the employees that it be ratified. 
 
 
ARTICLE 49 
 
TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION 
 
-214  This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until 12:00 Midnight, December 15, 
2002, with respect to all provisions of the Agreement. 
 
-215 
If  either  party  desires  to  terminate this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to the 
termination date, give written notice of termination.  If neither party shall give notice of termination 
of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph or notice of amendment, as hereinafter provided, or 
if each party giving a notice of termination withdraws the same prior to the termination date, this 
Agreement shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter subject to notice of termination by 
either party or sixty (60) days written notice prior to the current year's termination date. 
 
-216 
If either party desires to modify or change this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to the 
termination date or any subsequent termination date, give written notice of amendment in which 
event the notice of amendment shall set forth the nature of the amendment or amendments desired. 
If notice of amendment of this Agreement has been given in accordance with this paragraph, this 
Agreement may be terminated by either party on ten (10) days written notice of termination but not 
before the effective termination date of this Agreement.  Any amendments that may be agreed upon 
shall become and be a part of this Agreement without modifying or changing any of the other terms 
of this Agreement. 
 
-217  Notice of Termination Modification - Notice shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent 
by certified mail addressed to the Union and if to the Employer, addressed to the Director of 
Employee Relations or to any such address as the Union or the Employer may make available to 
each other. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

42

 

  MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 

   

 

                                    
Fred Poston 

 
 
  Vice President for Finance & 
  Operations & Treasurer 

ARTICLE 50 
 
EFFECTIVE DATE 
 
-218  This Agreement shall become effective as of December 16, 1999. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS 
 
Date Signed_________________ 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF 
OPERATING ENGINEERS (AFL-CIO)          
LOCAL 547, A,B,C,E, and H 
 
 
                                      
Philip Schloop  
 
 
Business Manager 
 
 
 
                                      
 
Jennifer Trudeau 
President     
 
 
 
   
 
                                      
J. David Ivers   
 
Recording Corresponding 
Secretary 
 
                                      
 
Wayne Cass        
             
 
 
                                      
 
Perry Burda  
 
   
 
 
                                      
Patrick Quinn   
 
 

 
  C. Keith Groty 
  Assistant Vice President 
  Human Resources       

 
  Robert Ellerhorst 
  Director of Utilities     

                                     
Samuel A. Baker 

 
 
  Director, Employee Relations 

                                      

                                    

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  
 

   

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

                                      
Stanley Hecker 

 
 
  Administrative Assistant, Physical Plant 

 
 

43 

 

   

 

 
    
 
 

APPENDIX I 

WAGE SCHEDULE 

 21.13 
 20.19 
 14.35 
 11.72 

Effective December 16, 1999 

          20.78 
  19.86 
 
  13.65 
  
 
  11.14 

$23.11    $24.06         
  21.75     21.98     $22.63       

Start  6 Mo   12 mo  18 mo  24 mo  30 mo  36 mo  42mo 

  21.96   
  21.00   
  15.06  $15.78  $16.48  $17.19  $18.61 
  12.68 

 
 
 
 
 
Classification Title  
 
OPERATIONS: 
 
Stationary Engineer - 1st      
 
*Stationary Engineer - 2nd            
Stationary Engineer -   3rd 
 
Boiler Operator II  
Boiler Operator I (a) 
  
Boiler Operator Trainee 
*Employees holding this classification who are declared by the Director of Utilities to be qualified to relieve employees holding the Stationary 
Engineer 1st Class classification shall be paid a 154 per hour premium. 
 
MAINTENANCE:  
 
Power Plant Technician III    
  
Power Plant Mechanic III 
Fuel Systems Operator III 
  
  
Power Plant Technician II 
  
Power Plant Mechanic II 
Fuel Systems Operator II 
  
  
Power Plant Mechanic I 
 
Power Plant Technician I 
Power Plant Helper 
 
Water Works Operator II 
 
Water Works Operator I 

 23.05 
 23.05 
 20.85   
 20.85 
 20.85    
 15.08 
 15.08 
 13.19 
 23.05 

  21.85 
  
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
 

  21.85 
  21.85 
  19.72 
  19.72 
  19.72 
  13.28 
  13.28 
  11.47 
  21.88 

  22.18 
  22.18 
  20.05 
  20.05 
  20.05 
  14.29 
  14.29 
   
  22.18 

 16.49 
 16.49 
 14.97 

 15.82 
 15.82 
 

 

 17.20 
 17.20 

  22.18 

 23.05 

 

 17.91 
 17.91 

 18.27 
 18.27 

  

 

 

Approx/Anticip 
Water Works Oper       Michigan Department 

         Experience          for:  Public Health Cert.* *  Pay Rate 

 

 
 

 
 

Changes in rates of pay are to be effective on the anniversary date. 
 
**(Indicated licensures must be obtained before increases are granted) 
 
(a) An employee may request advance placement in the wage scale.  The determination of advanced placement will be 
based on the background and demonstrated job skills of the employee.  The determination of any advanced placement shall 
be at the Employer’s discretion and shall not be grievable.        

 

APPENDIX II 

WAGE SCHEDULE 

44 

 

 
   
 
   
 
  
 

    

  Start 
12 mo.   
24 mo.   
36 mo.      
48 mo.     
72 mo.      
96 mo.    

 
 
 
 
 
   
 

 --- 

         

  
 
  D4,S4              
  D3,S3 
          
  
  D2,S2 
 
   
  D1,S1          

           
   
 
   

 
   
   
         
   
   
   

         

 --- 

 --- 

$13.25 
  14.90 
  16.15 
  17.40 
  18.63 
  19.87 
  21.13 

Effective December 16, 2000 

 

   

 

 
    
 
 

 $16.25 

 $16.97  $17.71  $19.18 

  21.76 
  20.80 
  14.78 
  12.07 

  22.63   
  21.64   
  15.51 
  13.06 

           21.40 
  20.46 
 
  
  14.06 
  11.47 
 

$23.80    $24.79         
  22.40      22.64    $23.32       

Start  6 Mo   12 mo  18 mo  24 mo  30 mo  36 mo  42mo 

Classification Title  
 
OPERATIONS: 
 
Stationary Engineer - 1st      
 
*Stationary Engineer - 2nd            
Stationary Engineer -   3rd 
 
Boiler Operator II  
  
Boiler Operator I (a) 
Boiler Operator Trainee 
*Employees holding this classification who are declared by the Director of Utilities to be qualified to relieve employees holding the 
Stationary Engineer 1st Class classification shall be paid a 154 per hour premium. 
 
MAINTENANCE:  
 
Power Plant Technician III    
Power Plant Mechanic III 
  
  
Fuel Systems Operator III 
  
Power Plant Technician II 
Power Plant Mechanic II 
  
  
Fuel Systems Operator II 
  
Power Plant Mechanic I 
Power Plant Technician I 
 
 
Power Plant Helper 
Water Works Operator II 
 
Water Works Operator I 

  23.75 
  23.75 
  21.49     
 21.49 
 21.49 
 15.53 
 15.53 
 13.59 
 23.75 

  22.85 
  22.85 
  20.65 
  20.65 
  20.65 
  14.72 
  14.72 
   
 22.85 

  22.51 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 

  22.51 
  22.51 
  20.31 
  20.31 
  20.31 
  13.68 
  13.68 
 11.81 
 22.54 

 16.98 
 16.98 
 15.42 

 16.29 
 16.29 
 

 17.72 
 17.72 

 18.45 
 18.45 

  22.85 

  23.75 

 

 18.82 
 18.82 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

Changes in rates of pay are to be effective on the anniversary date. 
 
**(Indicated licensures must be obtained before increases are granted) 
 
(a) An employee may request advance placement in the wage scale.  The determination of advanced placement will 
be based on the background and demonstrated job skills of the employee.  The determination of any advanced 
placement shall be at the Employer(cid:146) s discretion  and shall not be grievable.        

APPENDIX III 

WAGE SCHEDULE 

Effective December 16, 2001 

 
45 

 

 
   
 
   
 
  
 

Approx/Anticip 
Water Works Oper       Michigan Department 

         Experience          for:  Public Health Cert.* *  Pay Rate 

    

  Start 
12 mo.   
24 mo.   
36 mo.      
48 mo.     
72 mo.      
96 mo.    

 
 
 
 
 
   
 

 --- 

         

  
 
  D4,S4              
  D3,S3 
          
  
  D2,S2 
 
   
  D1,S1          

           
   
 
   

 
   
   
         
   
   
   

         

 --- 

 --- 

$13.65 
  15.35 
  16.63 
  17.92 
  19.19 
  20.47 
  21.76 

   

 

 
    
 
 

 21.98 
 21.01 
 14.93 
 12.19 

          21.61 
 
  20.66 
  14.20 
  
 
  11.58 

$24.04    $25.04 
  22.62     22.87    $23.55       

Start  6 Mo   12 mo  18 mo  24 mo  30 mo  36 mo  42mo 

  22.86 
  21.86   
  15.67  $16.41  $17.14  $17.89  $19.37 
  13.19 

Classification Title  
 
OPERATIONS: 
 
 
Stationary Engineer - 1st      
*Stationary Engineer - 2nd            
Stationary Engineer -   3rd 
 
Boiler Operator II  
Boiler Operator I (a) 
  
Boiler Operator Trainee 
*Employees holding this classification who are declared by the Director of Utilities to be qualified to relieve employees holding the 
Stationary Engineer 1st Class classification shall be paid a 154 per hour premium. 
 
MAINTENANCE:  
 
Power Plant Technician III    
  
Power Plant Mechanic III 
  
Fuel Systems Operator III 
Power Plant Technician II 
  
  
Power Plant Mechanic II 
  
Fuel Systems Operator II 
Power Plant Mechanic I 
  
 
Power Plant Technician I 
 
Power Plant Helper 
Water Works Operator II 
 
Water Works Operator I 

  23.99 
  23.99 
  21.70     
  21.70 
  21.70 
  15.69 
  15.69 
  13.73 
  23.99 

  22.74 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 

  22.74 
  22.74 
  20.51 
  20.51 
  20.51 
  13.82 
  13.82 
  11.93 
  22.77 

 23.08 
 23.08 
 20.86 
 20.86 
 20.86 
 14.87 
 14.87 
   
 23.08 

 17.15 
 17.15 
 15.57 

 16.45 
 16.45 
 

 17.90 
 17.90 

 18.63 
 18.63 

 19.01 
 19.01 

 23.08 

  23.99 

 

  

 

 

 

Approx/Anticip 
Water Works Oper       Michigan Department 

         Experience          for:  Public Health Cert.* *  Pay Rate 

    

  Start 
12 mo.   
24 mo.   
36 mo.      
48 mo.     
72 mo.      
96 mo.    

 
 
 
 
 
   
 

 --- 

         

  
 
  D4,S4              
  D3,S3 
          
  
  D2,S2 
 
   
  D1,S1          

           
   
 
   

 
   
   
         
   
   
   

         

 --- 

 --- 

$13.79 
  15.50 
  16.80 
  18.10 
  19.38 
  20.67 
  21.98 

 

 
   
 
   
 
  
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Changes in rates of pay are to be effective on the anniversary date. 
 
**(Indicated licensures must be obtained before increases are granted) 
 
(a) An employee may request advance placement in the wage scale.  The determination of advanced placement will 
be based on the background and demonstrated job skills of the employee.  The determination of any advanced 
placement shall be at the Employer(cid:146) s discretion  and shall not be grievable.        

APPENDIX IV 

 

DEFINITIONS 

 
 
Ability To Do The Work:  Means physical fitness, a record of competent and efficient 
performance and other current knowledge which together indicate with reasonable certainty that 
 
 

46 

the work in question will be performed competently and efficiently. 
 
Agreement:  Whenever the work "Agreement" is used in this document it shall be considered 
synonymous with the word "Contract." 
 
Calendar Day:  Means the twenty-four (24) consecutive hour period beginning at midnight (6:30 
a.m. for shift workers). 
 
Calendar Week:  Means seven (7) consecutive calendar days beginning at midnight between 
Sunday and Monday (6:30 a.m. Monday for shift workers). 
 
Emergency:  An unexpected situation or sudden occurrence of a serious and urgent nature that 
demands immediate attention. 
 
Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) Service Months 
              

A.  Full-time equivalent (FTE) service months is defined as the cumulative full-time 

equivalent (FTE) months of service for University employment of 50.0% or greater.  FTE 
service months will be used in determining eligibility for University benefits which 
require a service waiting period.  

B.   FTE service months will be credited each month as follows: 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 a)  1.00 credit per month for full-time (90% - 100%)   

 b)   .75 credit per month for 3/4 time (65% - 89.9%)   

      c)   .50 credit per month for 1/2 time (50% - 64.9%)   

  

  

                   employees 

                   employees 

                  employees 
 

C.  For new hires, terminations, percent of employment changes, etc., FTE service months  
will be credited based on an employee's status as of the 15th of the month. 
 
D.  Employees on paid and unpaid leaves of absence or layoff will continue to accrue FTE 
service months based on their percent of employment immediately prior to the leave/ 
layoff. 

E.  Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible to maintain 

group hospitalization and dental insurance and receive the Employer's proportional 
contribution. 

47 

F.  If an employee retires with 15 years of service and  at least age 62, use the following FTE 

Service Months ranges to determine their health and dental contribution during 
retirement. 

 
YEARS  MONTHS                 FTE SERVICE MONTHS 
 

             

 
        

1/2 time 

 

3/4 time 

 

Full-Time 

(50%-64.9%)    

(65%-89.9%)       

(90%-100%) 

 

 

 

 

90.00 - 116.99  

117.00 - 161.99   

 
  15           180   
 
If an employee retires with 25 years of service at any age, use the following FTE Service Month 
ranges. 
 
YEARS  MONTHS               
 
                    
 

FTE SERVICE MONTHS 

162.00 - 999.99 

3/4 time            

Full-Time 

1/2 time   

   

 

  

 

(50%-64.9%)      

(65%-89.9%)        

(90%-100%) 

 

270.00 - 999.99 

150.00 - 194.99   

195.00 - 269.99    

 
  25           300    
 
He/She:  Whenever personal pronouns are used in this Agreement, it shall be understood that the 
gender is neuter. 
 
Hours of Employment Status: 
 
Full-time Employee:  An employee who regularly works 36 hours to 40 hours per week. 
 
Three-Quarter Time Employee:  An employee who regularly works 26 hours but less than 36 
hours per week. 
 
Half-time Employee:  An employee who regularly works 20 hours but less than 26 hours  per 
week. 
 
Proportional Benefits:  Part-time benefits shall be apportioned to persons assigned less than full-
time in the following manner: 
 

26 hours but less than 36 hours . . . . . . . 75% 
20 hours but less than 26 hours . . . . . . . 50% 
Less than 20 hours  . . . . . . . . . . . . . no benefits 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

48 

Rates of Pay: 
 
Base Rate of Pay:  Is the per hour rate of the employee not including shift differential or overtime 
computations. 
Regular Rate of Pay:  Is the per hour rate of the employee including shift differential. 
 
Regular Employee:  Describes an employee who is not designated as temporary, or on-call and 
who works at least 20 scheduled hours a week. 
 
Time Worked:  Means paid time, whether or not actual work is performed. 
 
Union:  Whenever the words Local 547 or Union appear in this Agreement, they shall mean 
I.U.O.E. Local Union No. 547, A,B,C,E and H. 
 
University or Employer:  Whenever the words University or Employer appear in this Agreement, 
they shall mean Michigan State University. 
 
Workers’ Compensation:  
 
"Full" Workers’ Compensation:  Is the payment of Workers’ Compensation including sick, 
vacation or personal leave accrual supplementation. 
 
"Regular" Workers’ Compensation:  Is the payment of Workers’ Compensation with no sick, 
vacation, or personal leave accrual supplementation. 

 
 

49 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 
 
 
It has been the intent of the Employer to perform maintenance and operating 
functions within the Power Plants with bargaining unit personnel.  The 
exceptions to this policy in the past have been during emergencies and overhaul 
of Plant components when other personnel were utilized as necessary to meet 
required schedules. 
 
The Employer is willing to continue the policy of performing maintenance and 
operating functions with 547 personnel as long as work can be completed within 
required time frames. 
 
It is not the intent of these parties to utilize part-time employees to perform 
bargaining unit work. 
 
In the event the University should decide to utilize part-time employees to 
perform the work of this bargaining unit, the University and the Union shall 
meet to negotiate the terms and conditions under which said person or persons 
may be employed. 
 
This agreement shall become effective as of December 16, 1977. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS: 
 
Date Signed:  _____________________* 
 
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF 
OPERATING ENGINEERS (AFL-CIO) 
LOCAL 547, A,B,C 
 
 
_______________________  
 
Philip Schloop  
Business Manager 
 
 
*Modified by date only. 

________________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
Director, Employee Relations 

EMPLOYER 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

50 

 

 
 

 
 

 

NOTE:    

 

 

 

 

RULES GOVERNING OVERTIME FOR  

POWER PLANT EMPLOYEES 

 

 

These rules are intended to accomplish the equitable distribution 
of  overtime by establishing the order in which overtime is 
offered and should not be interpreted so as to prevent anyone 
from being contacted for work when plant needs dictate.   

Therefore it is understood that eligibility as it is used in the 
context of this document is intended to identify;  
 
1.  Where a person is in the normal rotation to be contacted for 
work,  

       and 

2.   When a person can be charged for turning down work when  

 

 
ELIGIBILITY RULES 
 
1.  Scheduled overtime will be offered to eligible employees in classifications 

where vacancies occur, who are capable of doing the work, starting with the 
employee who has the least accumulated overtime.  When an employee 
within classification is not available to perform overtime work, qualified 
employees in other classifications will be offered the work subject to the 
conditions in the paragraphs. 

 
2.   Overtime eligibility for an employee temporarily assigned to a higher or 

lower classification will be determined by assigning the employee the 
greatest number of overtime hours of any other employee in the assigned 
classifications.  Overtime hours charged during the temporary assignment 
will carry forward to the employee's regular classification at the end of the 
temporary assignment. 

 
3. 
 

 An employee is not eligible for overtime: 

a.   When on sick leave, funeral leave or when using personal time. 
 
b.   For maintenance series; 24 clock hours, eight (8) before and sixteen 

(16) following a call in for the use of vacation or personal time of 
eight (8) hours. 

51 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

c.   For operation series; 36 clock hours, twelve (12) before, twenty-four 
(24) following a call-in for the use of vacation or a personal time of 
twelve (12) hours. 

d.   When using a total of twenty four (24) hours of vacation or personal 
time concurrent with scheduled days off in any combination or spit. 

e.   For the sixteen (day shift) or twelve (operations) hours preceding or 

following personal time used;  

      1) in increments of less than eight (day shift) or twelve (operations) 

hours  

      and, 
      2) when used to start a shift late or end a shift early. 

Exceptions: 
 
a.  During emergencies an employee may be called at any time, charges 

will be for overtime actually worked. 

b.   An employee may be offered overtime on scheduled days off 

preceding or following vacation only after all other employees in 
the same classification have been offered the overtime.  In such 
case, overtime turned down will not be charged. 

       c.   When sick leave is used for pre-scheduled medical appointments. 

  
 d.  When using a total of twenty four (24) hours of vacation or  

personal time concurrent with scheduled days off in any 
combination or split, one will be  ineligible during scheduled days 
off. 

 
4.   In the Operating series, the employee on duty will have first choice to accept 

unscheduled continuation of work, providing the employee's accumulated 
overtime hours are within twenty four hours of the lowest overtime hours in 
the classification. In the event relief is not immediately available, the 
employee on duty will remain in the job until appropriate relief is obtained, 
regardless of the number of hours worked.  First Engineer, at his discretion, 
may assign this overtime to another member of the shift. 

 
 
5.   Employees in the Maintenance series, working on an assigned task that 

52 

 

 

 
 

requires overtime continuous to regular working hours, will be first eligible 
regardless of accumulated overtime hours. 

6.  Qualified Mechanics, Technicians, Fuel Systems, Water Works and 

Operators in that order, will be first eligible in the other series for overtime 
work that is not filled from within the series. 

 
7.   An employee off sick/ injured for a period of five days (5) or more may, at 
his/her option, elect to turn down overtime for a period of time equal to the 
period of absence without charge. At the end of that time (or before, if the 
employee declares eligibility) s/he will have their hours adjusted and be 
charged in accordance with the guidelines. 

 
8.  An employee in the operating series who turned down overtime on a 

specific shift is not eligible for other overtime in another position on the 
same shift. 

 
CHARGING OVERTIME 
 
1.   For the purpose of equalizing overtime, equivalent overtime hours will be 
charged   when: 
 

a.  Overtime is refused. 

 

b.   Overtime is refused because of an unreported illness. 
 
c.   An employee does not respond after a message is left through a personal 

contact on a telephone answering device on the home phone.  A 
maximum of twelve (12) hours a day (operations) or eight (8) hours 
(maintenance) will be charged providing contact is made each day. 

 
2.   An employee will be charged only for overtime actually worked, when recall 
results in subsequent acceptance of the same overtime initially refused.  All 
other employees contacted before or after the initial refusal will be charged 
in the normal manner. 

 
3.   There will be no overtime charge for an unanswered telephone call. 
 
4.   An employee electing to split a period of overtime with a another employee 

will be charged for the full period of the overtime. 

 
5.   For the purposes of overtime equalization holiday pay will be considered to 

53 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be a premium and not overtime worked subject to charge.  

6.  An employee shall not be charged when turning down overtime offered on a 

designated holiday as defined in Article 22.  

 
7.   An employee using vacation, personal or sick time on their scheduled 

overtime day will have the time charged as offered/refused. 

 

  8.   Employees who work or refuse overtime on their "short (36 hour) 

week" will be charged only for overtime actually worked or refused.  
(employee scheduled for 12 hours will be charged 8 hours). 

  MISCELLANEOUS 

 

1. 

 Employees will be allowed a reasonable time to return a call for overtime. 

2.  Employees will be given as much advance notice as possible for both 
 

scheduled and unscheduled overtime. 

3.  Acceptance of scheduled overtime is implicit unless a written refusal is 

made within twenty four hours of the time it is reasonable to assume that 
the employee became aware of the notification. 

 
4.   Seniority will not be considered when making temporary assignments. 

5.   Operators may be moved from one shift to another to fill vacant positions 

when the vacancy is expected to extend three or more days. 

6.   Filling out and posting overtime replacements for vacation, personal and 
sick time requests will be done not less than seven days prior to the time 
requested.  When requested within seven days of the time off, posting 
will be done immediately by the first engineer presented the request. 

7.   For turning down work on a holiday, employees are not released from 

their obligation to work until a replacement is secured through the normal 
overtime procedures and the operations supervisor has been notified. 

8.   Eligible employees will be charged for offers refused when contacted, 

regardless of the methodology. 

9.   If when returning to work from sick leave or on an unpaid leave of 

absence over 30 calendar days an employees overtime equalization hours 

54 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

are lowest in their classification, they shall be charged an amount of hours 
equal to the lowest employee in the same classification. 

INTERNATIONAL UNION OF 
OPERATING ENGINEERS (AFL-CIO) 
LOCAL 547, A,B,C 
 

 

 

EMPLOYER 

_________________________ 
Philip Schloop 
 
Business Manager  

 
 

Date_____________________* 

 
 
 

 

___________________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
Director, Employee Relations 

Date_______________________* 

*  Modified by date only 

55 

Philip Schloop 

 

        Business Manager 
 

  IUOE Local 547, AFL-CIO 

  Samuel A. Baker 
  Director, Employee Relations 

 
 
 
February 11, 1986 
 
 
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 
 
TO:   
 
 
 
 
 
FROM: 
 
 
 
SUBJECT:  Adjustment in Uniform Policy 
 
The University agrees to provide one (1) additional uniform over the present allotment to 
employees classified as Power Plant Mechanics, Power Plant Mechanic Trainees, Boiler 
Operators, Boiler Operator Trainees, Fuel Systems Operators and Power Plant Helpers. 
 
*Uniforms provided to employees classified as Power Plant Mechanics, Power Plant 
Mechanic Trainees, Boiler Operators and Boiler Operator Trainees shall be fire retardant 
as secured by the Management of Power Plant. 
 
*This program shall be in effect for three (3) years and renewable only with the mutual 
agreement of both parties. 
 
 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY                     
 
_________________________      
Samuel A. Baker    
Director, Employee Relations               
 
 
Date_____________________* 
 
*Modified by date only. 
 

________________________ 

Date____________________* 

                         Philip Schloop 

Business Manager, Local 547 

FOR THE UNION 

 

 

 
 

56 

Letter of Agreement 

Employer 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
In cases of emergency where personal leave time has been exhausted, vacation time in 
increments of less than one day may be utilized, subject to the approval of management. 
 This program shall be in effect for three (3) years and renewable only with the mutual 
agreement of both parties. 
 
This agreement shall be effective December 16, 1988. 
 
 
I.U.O.E.  Local 547 A, B, C, H              
 
 
_____________________________             _________________________ 
Philip Schloop                              
Business Manager                            
 
Date                                 ______    *   
 
*Modified by date only 
 
 

Samuel A. Baker 
Director, Employee Relations 

Date __                                      * 

 
 

57 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 
 
 
Employees will be permitted to develop alternative methods of shift scheduling and 
rotation as long as such alternative methods impose no additional costs on the 
Employer. 
 
This Agreement shall become effective as of December 16, 1982. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS: 
 
Date Signed:                                      * 
 
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF 
OPERATING ENGINEERS (AFL-CIO) 
LOCAL 547, A, B, C                
 
 
___________________________* 
 
Philip Schloop  
Business Manager, Local 547 
 
*Modified by date only. 
 
 

___________________________* 
Samuel A. Baker 
Director, Employee Relations 

EMPLOYER 

 

 
 
 

 

 

58 

 
 
December 19, 1990 
 
 
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 
 
 
TO: 

 

 

Philip Schloop 
Business Manager 
IUOE Local 547, AFL-CIO 

Samuel A. Baker 
Director, Employee Relations 

 
FROM: 

 

 
SUBJECT:      Shift Leader 
 
The Stationary Engineer, 1st Class, has the responsibility for acting as shift leader in an 
assigned operations area.  In the conduct of duties attendant to the role of shift leader the 
Stationary Engineer, 1st Class, is expected to ensure that work responsibilities are carried 
out in accordance with department procedures.  Shift personnel are required to carry out 
the instructions of the Stationary Engineer, 1st Class, in all matters associated with their 
work responsibilities. 
 
The Stationary Engineer, 1st Class, can be required to provide and sign written reports 
about conditions on the shift and the conduct of employees on the shift.   
 
The parties agree to and understand this responsibility. 
 
 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY                       
 
 
_____________________________            ____________________________  
Samuel A. Baker                          
Director, Employee Relations  
 
Date____________________* 
 
*Modified by date only. 
 

 
            Business Manager, Local 547 

Date______________________* 

FOR THE UNION 

Philip Schloop  

 

 
 

59 

 

Letter of Agreement 

between 

Michigan State University 

and 

IUOE Local 547 

Dental HMO Option 

 

 

The University agrees to pursue and implement a managed care dental plan effective July 
1, 1995.  The cost of the dental HMO plan must be no greater than the traditional dental 
plan cost.  The intent is to provide enhanced dental benefits without additional cost to 
the University as an employee option in place of traditional coverage. 
 
Implementation Steps: 
1.  Develop additional questions for organizations on benefits, patient and employer 

services, funding, administrative procedures, data provisions to employer, etc.  
Include questions from Local 547. 

 
2.  Provide letter to organizations with questions. 
 
3.  Staff Benefits, Local 547 and representatives from other bargaining units will review  
      responses and develop a recommendation for two (2) final proposals. 
 
4.  Michigan State University will meet with representatives of organizations and visit sites 
as appropriate, (e.g. staff model HMO).  Site visit is to include demonstration of how 
patients establish appointments, pay co-pays, how claims are processed, etc.  (Local 547 
representative(s) may also attend site visit.) 

   
 5.  Following input from bargaining unit representatives, Michigan State University 
  will make determination for the dental HMO plan by October 1, 1994. 
 
 6.  Dental HMO will be offered as an option in May 1995 Open Enrollment for July 1, 

1995 effective date. 

 
 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY 
                                         * 
 
Samuel A. Baker, Director 
 
Office of Employee Relations  
 
Date:_________________* 
* Modified by date only 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

FOR THE UNION 
___________                              * 
Philip Schloop, Business Manager    
IUOE Local 547 

Date____________________* 

 
 

60 

 

Letter of Agreement 

between 

 

 

 

 

  

 

      Michigan State University 

and 

IUOE Local 547 

 
 
 
Dental HMO Option 
 
The University agrees that representatives from the Benefits Office will meet on an 
annual basis with representatives from Local 547 and other bargaining units to review 
the performance of the alternative Dental Program. 
 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY 
 
 
                                                       
Samuel A. Baker 
Director, Office of Employee Relations 
 
Date:                                              * 
 
* Modified by date only  

                                                        
Philip Schloop, Business Manager 
IUOE, Local 547 

Date:  ______________________* 

FOR THE UNION 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

61 

 

Letter of Agreement 

Between 

Michigan State University 

and 

IUOE Local 547 

 
 
Contract Reopener/Family Optical Plan 
 
The parties agree to reopen the contract during the third year of the Agreement for the 
sole purpose of discussing the concept of a family optical plan. 
 
 
 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY 
 
                                                    
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Office of Employee Relations 
 
Date:                                           * 
 
* Modified by date only  

_                                                      
Philip Schloop, Business Manager 
IUOE, Local 547 

Date:  _____________________* 

FOR THE UNION 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

62 

 

Letter of Agreement 

Between 

Michigan State University 

and 

IUOE Local 547 

 
 
NUS Training Program 
 
Within 90 days of the close of this Agreement, the parties shall meet and review the 
preliminary cut list for the NUS Training modules, (and other training programs) to 
determine the applicability of units to classifications covered by the Agreement. 
 
Employees shall participate and sign up for the NUS system during working hours for a 
minimum of one (1) hour per month.  No programs shall be considered a prerequisite for 
promotion until there is an agreement of the parties unless impasse is reached. 
 
The Employer will review past evaluations for negative comments or evaluations that 
were based on the non-completion of NUS units prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 

FOR THE UNIVERSITY 

 

 

 

FOR THE UNION 

 
 
                                                        
Samuel A. Baker 
Director, Office of Employee Relations 
 
Date:                                              * 
 
* Modified by date only 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

                                                        
Philip Schloop, Business Manager 
IUOE, Local 547 

Date: ______________________*  

 
 

63 

 

Letter of Agreement 

Between 

Michigan State University 

and 

IUOE Local 547 

 
Workers Compensation/Retirement Contributions 
 
The parties agree to hold a Special Conference to discuss the Union concerns relating to 
retirement contributions for individuals who are on Workers Compensation/long-term 
disability/extended disability. 
 
 
 
 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY 
 
                                                    
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Employee Relations  
 
Date:  ____________________* 
 
* Modified by date only 

____                                                 
Philip Schloop, Business Manager 
IUOE, Local 547 

Date:  ______________________* 

FOR THE UNION 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

64 

 

 
 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

 
It is not the intent of the University to introduce for the first time in its history mass 
layoffs or reductions of hours. 
 
If, due to conditions beyond the control of the University, it becomes necessary to 
reduce Employees’ working hours, the University agrees to meet with the Union in order 
to affect a mutually agreeable settlement.  If no agreement can be reached at that 
meeting, the proposed reduction can then be implemented and the dispute may then be 
arbitrated on the basis of the questions put before the arbitrator by both sides.  
Temporary or part-time persons shall not be used to perform work of the bargaining unit 
while a reduced hour schedule is in effect. 
 
IN WITNESS THEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS 
 
Date Signed:                                               * 
 
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF 
OPERATING ENGINEERS (AFL-CIO) 
LOCAL 547, A, B, C    
                 
 
_________________________  
Philip Schloop  
Business Manager 
 
*Modified by date only. 
 

_________________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
Director, Employee Relations 

EMPLOYER 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

65 

LETTER OF AGREEMENT 

Between 

Michigan State University, 

International Union of Operating Engineers Local 547 A,B,C&H, 

The Employer, 

And 

 The Union. 

 

 

 
 

 
In the event the Employer considers divesting itself of the T.B. Simon Power Plant, 
it will give immediate notice to the Union.  Such notice shall be given at least 6 
months prior to any divestiture, or at the time the University begins development of 
an R.F.P., or begins negotiations with the entity, whichever occurs first.  Copies of 
any  R.F.P.  and  any  proposals to operate or change the operation of the T.B. 
Simon Power Plant from any source will be provided to the Union.  In the event the 
Employer  decides  it  will  divest  itself  of  the  T.B.  Simon  Power  Plant,  it 
acknowledges its obligation to bargain over  the impact of said decision at the 
request of the Union. 
 
 
For the University 
 
 
 
_______________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Employee Relations 
 
 
 
 

_________________________ 
Philip Schloop 
Business Manager, Local 547 

For the Union 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

66 

LETTER OF AGREEMENT 

Between 

Michigan State University, 

 

 

The Employer, 

And 

The Union. 

 

International Union of Operating Engineers Local 547 A,B,C, & H, 

In accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding, should the current Health 
Care  Agreement  expire  on  June  30,  2002,  the  parties  agree  to  reopen  the 
Agreement specifically for the purpose of discussing the health care plan. 
 
 
 
For the University 
 
 
__________________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Employee Relations 
 
 
 
 

__________________________ 
Philip Schloop 
Business Manager, Local 547 

For the Union 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

67 

LETTER OF AGREEMENT 

Between 

Michigan State University, 

 
 

 

The Employer, 

And 

The Union. 

 

International Union of Operating Engineers Local 547 A,B,C, & H, 

Consistent with the December 16, 1982 Memorandum of Agreement regarding 
alternative methods of shift scheduling and rotation, the following shall apply: 
 
This is a collection of administrative working rules used for facilitating a twelve (12) 
hour shift for Operations at T.B. Simon Power Plant.  These rules have been developed 
following the Letter of Agreement signed September 8, 1995.  It is understood the 
management reserves the right to schedule, in accordance with Article 2 through 10, and 
that reverting to an eight (8) hours work day will reinstate Article 18, paragraphs 94 and 
Article 17, paragraphs 89 and 90. 
 
In the event the Fair Labor Standards Act is amended and such amendments affect this 
agreement, the parties will meet to make this agreement consistent with such 
amendments. 
 
Work Schedule 
 
The normal schedule of work for full-time operations series employees shall be twelve 
(12) hours per day including lunch periods. 
 
The shift schedule for the operations series (except the relief operator), a thirty-six (36) 
hour work week followed by a forty-eight (48) hour work week, is described as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
The normal schedule for the relief shift operator will be four (4), eleven (11) hour days 
including lunch periods; forty-four hours (44) per week. 
 
Operators will be allowed to refuse the overtime of the forty-eight hour week any time 
during that week. 
 
 
 

Three nights worked followed by three days off; then four days worked, 
followed by seven days off; then four nights worked, followed by three days 
off, followed by three days worked, followed by one day off (see attachment). 

68 

 
 
 
 
 
Shift Premium 
 
A shift premium for twelve (12) hour shifts only of one dollar thirty cents ($1.30) per 
hour shall be paid to any employee scheduled to work a twelve (12) hour shift that starts 
work on or after 6:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. 
 
Overtime 
 
An overtime premium computed at one and one-half times the employee’s hourly rate 
will be paid for time worked in excess of twelve (12) hours for operations personnel. 
 
Holiday Pay 
 
Holiday pay for twelve (12) hour shift calculations will be based on expenditures for 
holiday pay for the eight (8) hour shift. 
 
The holiday pay for operations personnel who are scheduled to work on the holiday will 
be equivalent to twelve (12) hours, and the holiday pay for operating staff not scheduled 
to work on the holiday will be equivalent to six (6) hours. 
 
It is understood that for the twelve hour shift for operations personnel, when paid 
absence time is used during schedule premium hours, that time shall be paid at straight 
time. 
 
FOR THE UNIVERSITY 
 
 
____________________________ 
Samuel A. Baker 
 
Director, Employee Relations 
 
 
 
Date________________________ 
 
 
 

__________________________ 
Philip Schloop 
Business Manager,  I.U.O.E. 
Local 547, AFL-CIO 

Date______________________ 

FOR THE UNION 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX 

 
 

69 

           

 
 
Article  
Paragraph    
Number   Number      
 
 
App.IV 
   
     20   
   
 
  
 
   App. IV     
    35        166  
 

 
109 
   2 

 
 
   

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

12    
 
 
19   

 
     15        
     
 7         
     46        
 
     36        

 

 

 

 

 

  

  App.II 
 

   
  
     App. III 

  App. I      
   
   
    
   
   
   App. IV     
 
   
   75     
   App. IV     
   App. IV     
 107     
   86     
   32     
 211     
   App. IV     
 170     
 
   
 171     
 171       
 176       
 178       
   
   83     
 161     
 218     
 182     
   App. IV     
 179     
   
 137     
 151     

 App. IV 

     36        
  
 
 

         
        

   

     13                83 
 
  
     34    
  

 
 
50        
38   
 
 

 

 

 
     37     
 
     25        
     32        
 
 
 

Article                              

 

Ability to Do The Work, Def. of 
Absences 
Agreement 
Agreement, Def. of 

 
 
  
  Alternate Prepaid Health Plan  

 
 
 
33 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

  

 
 

   

 
 
 

 
 
 

Appendix I 
   Wage Schedule, 1999 
Appendix II 
 
   Wage Schedule, 2000 
Appendix III 
   Wage Schedule, 2001 
Appendix IV 
 
   Definitions           
 
Arbitration 
 
Base Rate of Pay, Def. of 
 
Calendar Day, Def. of  
 
Call-In and Reporting Pay 
 
Classification and Wages 
   
Continuous Service, Def. of 
 
Contract Documents    
 
Definitions 
 
 
Dental Insurance Plan  
 
 
Dental HMO   
 
Disability Plans 
  
 
Long-Term Disability Plan 
 
Extended Disability Plan 
Workers’ Compensation 
 
 
Discharge 
 
Discipline                             
Educational Assistance 
 
Effective Date                           
 
Employee-Paid Life 
Employer, Def. of 
 
Expanded Life Plan                  
Full Workers’ Compensation, Def. of 
Funeral Leave   
 
General Conditions, Leave with Pay    

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 

 
  

  

 

 

 

 

70 

Page

 

47 
22  
 1 
47 

44 
 
45 

46 

 

47-49 
14 
49 
47 
21 
16-18 
 6 
41 
47-49 
34 
59 
35-36 
35 
35 
36 
15            
15 
22-33 
43 
36 
49 
 
49 
27-28 
30-31    

 

 

  

 
Article   Paragraph    
Number 
12   

38   
     35   
     21   
     35   
 
  

 
   
     25    
 
     43        
     26        
11        
     32         

  Number 
 
62   
   App. IV   
    182   
 
  166   
 
 
  110   
 
    166   
   App. IV   
   
 
   
 
 
   
  138   
  204   
  140   
   57   
  151   
  151     
        154     
  144   
 
   
   
 
        203   
 77   
 
 
93   
  202   
 
85   
  145   
    145     
  146     
  147     
 
   
  164   
   11   
     
6   
     
   101   
     18       
   101     
   
    
 
   102     
       
  103     
  
  
  104     
        106     

     43   
     12        
  
     16   
 
     43    
 
     14     
    30    
 
 
  
   

       
 
 
        

34   
 3    
 1     

     29         
 

   

        
       

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

  

  

 
 

 
 

  
 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 
 
Article   
 
Grievance Procedure   
 
He/She, Def. Of 
 
 
 
Employee-Paid Life 
 
 
HMO    
 
Holiday Provisions 
  
Health Care Coverage   
 
Hours of Employment Status, Def. of 
 
 
  Full-Time 
 
 
  Three-Quarters Time   
48 
 
 
  Half-Time 
 
  
 
Immediate Family, Def. of 
 
Intramural Facilities 
 
 
Jury Duty 
 
Layoff and Recall Procedure     
 
Leave of Absence - General Conditions    
 
  With Pay 
  
  Without Pay   
 
Leave of Absence for Illness or 
  Disability 
 
Letters of Agreement                     
Library 
 
Limit on Arbitrator's Authority 
 
Lunch Periods   
  
Maintenance of Conditions 
 
Medical Dispute 
  
Military Leave   
 
 
 
  Short Tours of Duty   
  Extended Service 
  
 
  Educational Leave of Absence for 
    Veterans 
Non-credit Instructional Activity 
No-Strike Guarantee   
Non-Discrimination 
   
  
 
Overtime 
  
 
  Premium 
  
  Pyramiding 
 
 
  Scheduling 
  
 
  Distribution    
  Definitions 
  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

  

  

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
29-30 
 
 

 

 

 

 

71 

Page 

 
12-15 
48 
36 
33 
22 
33-34 
48 
48 

48 
27 
40 
28 
11-12 
30-31 
30-31 
31 

29 
50-68 
40 
14 
19 
40 
15-16 

29 
30 

30 
32-33 
 2 
 1-2 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
21 

 

 

   

  1   
 8     

 
   
     48        
     11        
 4         
     
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
     13    
34   

 
Article   Paragraph    
Number   Number       
  143   
 
28        
     24        
  132   
   Preface     
 
39   
     
        
     10        
   44   
 
  
        
  45A     
   App. IV   
 
  
 
  206   
 
     43   
        
 
  
3   
   App. IV   
  
 
   
 
   
 
  213   
   58   
   15   
   App. IV   
   App. IV   
   App. IV   
 
   
83   
  164   
 
     16        
   94   
        184   
     39   
  184     
 
     
  
  189   
 
     39   
 
       
   
  195    
36   
  160   
10   
  209   
  202   
   32   
 
32     
 
32     
32,59      
 7                 33   
34   
        
36   
        
38   
        
     17   
96   
 
 

     33        
     
     44        
     43        
 7         
    
        
  
  
        
      7,11   
 
 

  7    

  
  
  
 

 2    

        

        

 
 
 
 

 

  

 

   

 
   

 
  
  

  
  
 

   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

                         
Article  
 
Personal Leave 
 
Personal Leave Day 
 
 
   
Probationary Employees 
 
Promotions 
Promotions, Def. of 
 
Proportional Benefits, Def. of  
 
Protective Clothing 
 
Purpose and Intent 
 
   
 
Rates of Pay, Def. of    
 
 
  Base    
  Regular 
 
 
 
 
Ratification 
 
  
Recall Procedure 
Recognition 
   
 
 
Regular Employee, Def. of 
  
Regular Rate of Pay, Def. of    
Regular Workers’ Compensation, Def. of 
Reprimand, Suspension, Discharge 
Released Time 
Rest Periods 
  
Retirement Benefits 
  TIAA-CREF   
   Retirement for Employees Hired Prior 
 
     to 1/1/73 
 
 
   University Retirement 
Return Rights    
 
 
Return to Active Employment 
Rights of the Employer 
   
 
  
Savings Clause 
 
Season Tickets 
  
 
Seniority-Definitions     
   
  University 
 
 
 
 
  Unit     
 
Classification     
 
  
Seniority - Temporary, Employees 
Seniority - Loss of 
Seniority - Return Rights 
Seniority List     
Shift Premium   

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 

  
 
 
 
 

 
 
  
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

   

 
 

  

72 

Page 
29 
27 
1 
8 
9-10 
9 
48 
40 
1 
49 
49 
49 
42 
12 
3 
49 
49 
49 
15 
32-33 
19 
37-39 
37-39 

37-38 
38-39     
 7 
31 
 2 
41 
40 
 6 
 6 
 6 
6,12 
 6 
6-7 
 7 
 8 
19 

   

 
 

 
Article    Paragraph    
Number 
  
  

106 
106 
115 
199 
200 
212 
        33 
       214 
    App. IV 
207 
205 
  42 
    App. IV 
125 

  Number      
 
  
 
     22        
     40        
     41        
     47        
     
 7    
     49   
        
     43        
        
 
 9         
  

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
 
     23        
   
     15    86,App. I    
      App.II 
        
   
   
 
     App. III 
 
   
     15              86 
    45        
210 
   
   
208 
     43     
 
   
201 
     42        
     16        
  91 
   
22,36  118,178 
   
 App.IV      
 
     
 
 
     

  
   
   

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

 
Article               
 
 
  
Shift Schedules 
 
  
Shifts - Defined 
 
 
Sick Leave 
  
 
Special Conferences 
  
 
Supervision Working    
  
Supplemental Agreements 
Temporary Employees 
   
Termination and Modification 
Time Worked, Def. of   
 
 
 
Tools    
 
Uniforms 
 
Union Bulletin Board    
              8-9 
 
 
Union, Def. of   
 
 
Vacations 
  
 
  
Wage Schedule 
Wage Schedule 
  
 
 
 
Wage Schedule 
 
  
Wage Progression 
Waiver 
 
 
  
 
Wash-up Time 
  
  
Work by Other Employees 
Work Schedules 
 
Workers’ Compensation 
  
Workers’ Compensation, Def. of 
  Full 
  
  Regular 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  

 
 

 
 

  

Page 

 
21 
21 
23-25 
39 
39 
41 
 6 
42 
49 
40 
40 

49 
25-26 
16-18,44 
45 
46 
16-17 
41 
40 
40 
18-19 
24,36 
49 
49 
49 

 

 

73 

