Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

37

Language English

Country United States

State MI

IDnum

Union

Local Administrative-Professional Association

Office and administrative support worker supervisors and managers 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Michigan State University
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 2000

EndYear 2003

Source

http://www.hr.msu.edu/Docweb/contracts/default.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
  
PURPOSE AND INTENT 
ARTICLE 1 
RECOGNITION 
ARTICLE 2 
MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS 
ARTICLE 3 
MANAGEMENT SECURITY 
ARTICLE 4 
AID TO OTHER LABOR UNIONS 
ARTICLE 5 
ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP 
ARTICLE 6 
ASSOCIATION RIGHTS 
ARTICLE 7 
EMPLOYMENT STATUS 
ARTICLE 8 
PROBATIONARY/TRIAL PERIOD 
ARTICLE 9 
SENIORITY 
ARTICLE 10 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 
ARTICLE 11 
OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDERS 
ARTICLE 12 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS 
ARTICLE 13 
PROMOTION/DEMOTION 
ARTICLE 14 
FILLING VACANT POSITIONS 
ARTICLE 15 
CLASSIFICATION/RECLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS 
ARTICLE 16 
REDUCTION IN FORCE 
ARTICLE 17 
COMPENSATION PROGRAMS 
ARTICLE 18 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS 
ARTICLE 19 
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY 
ARTICLE 20 

4 
5 
5 
6 
6 
7 
7 
8 
8 
9 
9 
12 
12 
14 
14 
17 
17 
18 
18 
19 
19 
24 
24 
25 
25 
26 
26 
27 
27 
28 
28 
29 
29 
41 
41 
45 
45 
46 
46 
47 

LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY 
ARTICLE 21 
VACATION PAY 
ARTICLE 22 
PERSONAL LEAVE DAYS 
ARTICLE 23 
HOLIDAYS 
ARTICLE 24 
SICK LEAVE 
ARTICLE 25 
MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
ARTICLE 26 
MATERNITY LEAVE 
ARTICLE 27 
FLEXIBLE APPOINTMENTS 
ARTICLE 28 
LONGEVITY PAY 
ARTICLE 29 
JURY DUTY PAY 
ARTICLE 30 
MILITARY DUTY PAY 
ARTICLE 31 
BEREAVEMENT DAYS 
ARTICLE 32 
OVERVIEW 
ARTICLE 33 
RETIREE/OVER 65 LIFE PROGRAM 
ARTICLE 34 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PROGRAM 
ARTICLE 35 
DENTAL PLAN 
ARTICLE 36 
EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLAN 
ARTICLE 37 
EXTENDED DISABILITY LEAVE 
ARTICLE 38 
EXPANDED LIFE PLAN 
ARTICLE 39 
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN 
ARTICLE 40 
TRAVEL ACCIDENT PROGRAM 
ARTICLE 41 
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 

47 
49 
49 
51 
51 
52 
52 
53 
53 
56 
56 
57 
57 
58 
58 
64 
64 
66 
66 
67 
67 
68 
68 
69 
69 
70 
70 
71 
71 
72 
72 
73 
73 
74 
74 
75 
75 
76 
76 
77 
77 
78 
78 

ARTICLE 42 
COURSE FEE COURTESY PROGRAM 
ARTICLE 43 
RETIREMENT PLAN 
ARTICLE 44 
HEALTH CARE COVERAGE 
ARTICLE 45 
SAFETY 
ARTICLE 46 
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT 
ARTICLE 47 
AGREEMENT 
APPENDIX I 
 

82 
82 
84 
84 
85 
85 
88 
88 
89 
89 
90 
90 
93 

PURPOSE AND INTENTPURPOSE AND INTENT 

This  Agreement  entered  into  by  the  parties  has  as  its  purpose  the  promotion  of 
harmonious relations between the Employer and the Administrative-Professional Association, the 
establishment of an equitable and peaceful procedure for the resolution of differences and the 
establishment of rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment. 
 

The parties recognize that the interest of the Employer and job security of the employees 

depend upon the Employer's success in establishing a proper service to the State. 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

To these ends, the Employer and the Administrative-Professional Association encourage 
to the fullest degree friendly and cooperative relations between the respective representatives at 
all levels and among all employees.  The parties are mutually committed to promoting respect, 
civility, teamwork and empowerment in the work place. 
 

The Employer and the Association recognize the moral principles involved in the area of 
civil  rights  and  affirmative  action  and  reaffirm  in  this  Agreement  their  commitment  not  to 
discriminate  because  of  participation  in  or  affiliation  with  any  labor  organizations, race, color, 
religion, creed, sex, age, national origin, marital status, handicap, and sexual orientation except to 
the extent that such matters are, under law, allowable, bona fide job qualifications. 

 

4 

ARTICLE 1ARTICLE 1 

 

RECOGNITIONRECOGNITION 

 
 
-1 
Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of Act 379 of the Public Acts 
of  1965,  as  amended,  the  Employer  does  hereby  recognize  the  Michigan  State  University 
Administrative-Professional Association as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for 
those  employees  in  the  defined  bargaining  unit  for  the  purpose  of  collective  bargaining  with 
respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment. 
 
-2 
the  Michigan  State  University  Administrative-Professional 
Association was certified by the Michigan Employment Relations Commission in Case No. R85 
H-207  as  the  representative  for  all  regular  full-time  and  regular  part-time  Administrative  and 
Professional employees serving in a non-supervisory capacity and located upon the main campus 
of Michigan State University, East Lansing and Lansing, Michigan.  Excluded are:  Executive, 
Supervisors and Confidential employees. 

On  August  2,  1985, 

 

 

5 

ARTICLE 2ARTICLE 2 

 

MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTSMANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS 

 
 
-3 
Except  as  provided  in  this  Agreement,  nothing  contained  in  this  Agreement  shall  be 
deemed to limit the Employer in any way in the exercise of the regular and customary functions 
of management.  Such regular and customary functions include, but are not limited to, the right 
to hire, promote, transfer and layoff because of lack of funds, lack of work and/or other cause; 
discipline,  suspend  and  discharge  for  just  cause;  decide  the  work  to  be  performed  and  the 
number and location of employees and units; determine the methods, schedules and means of 
conducting activities; and promulgate policies, procedures, rules and regulations for the orderly 
and efficient operation of the University. 
 
-4 
The  Employer  shall  have  the  right  to  adopt  reasonable  rules  and  regulations  not 
inconsistent herewith.  If after transmittal to the Association Chairperson of rules and regulations, 
and the Association has not processed a grievance alleging unreasonableness within 14 calendar 
days after receipt, the rules and regulations shall no longer be grievable.  Thereafter, grievances 
related  to  rules  and  regulations  shall  be  limited  to  their  enforcement  and  penalties  resulting 
therefrom. 
 
By  mutual  agreement,  parties  may  utilize  the  Special  Conference  mechanism  relative  to 
promulgation of rules and regulations.  The fourteen (14) day requirement may be waived, by 
mutual agreement, until after the Special Conference is held. 
 
-5 
with respect to bargaining unit work. 
 
In the event the Employer determines that a modification of its operation(s), which results in the 
movement  of  work  from  the  bargaining  unit,  makes  it  necessary  to  reduce  its  personnel 
complement,  the  Association  Chairperson  will  be  notified  of  its  determination.    At  the 
Association's request, the parties will meet to discuss the reasons for the determination, and the 
Association may offer suggestions and make recommendations.  Thereafter the Employer shall 
have the right to implement its decision. 

The Association recognizes that the Employer has the right to make all determinations 

 

 

6 

ARTICLE 3ARTICLE 3 

 

MANAGEMENT SECURITYMANAGEMENT SECURITY 

 
 
-6 
The  parties  of  this  Agreement  mutually  recognize  that  the  services  performed  by 
employees  covered  by  this  Agreement  are  services  essential  to  the  efficient  operation  of  the 
University.  The Association, therefore, agrees that there shall be no interruption of these services, 
for any cause whatsoever. 
 
The Association recognizes that strikes by public employees are prohibited by Act 336, 
-7 
Public Acts of 1947, as amended by Act 379, Public Acts of 1965 as amended, and agrees that it 
will comply with said Act. 
 
-8 
The  Association  and  its  officials  will  not  cause,  support  or  condone,  nor  shall  any 
employee or employees take part in any action against or any interference with the operations of 
the University during the term of this Agreement. 

 

 

7 

ARTICLE 4ARTICLE 4 

 

 

AID TO OTHER LABOR UNIONSAID TO OTHER LABOR UNIONS 

 
-9 
The  Employer  will  not  aid,  promote  or  finance  any  labor  group  or  organization  that 
purports  to  engage  in  collective  bargaining  or  make  any  agreement  with  any  such  group  or 
organization for the purpose of undermining the Association. 
 
-10 
unit, individually or collectively, that in any way conflict with the provisions hereof. 

The Employer shall not enter into any other agreement with employees in this bargaining 

 

 

8 

ARTICLE 5ARTICLE 5 

 

ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP 

I. 

Dues/Service Fee 

 
-11 
As a condition of employment, each employee of the Bargaining Unit, on or before the 
30th day after the effective date of this Agreement or on or before the 30th day after employment 
in the Bargaining Unit, whichever is later, and monthly thereafter, shall tender to the APA either 
periodic and uniformly required Association dues or, in the alternative, service fees in an amount 
equal to these dues as set forth in the Bylaws of the Michigan State University Administrative-
Professional Association. 
 

 

 

II. 

Checkoff 

 
-12 
The Employer, at the time of hire, rehire, reinstatement or transfer of an employee into the 
Bargaining  Unit,  shall  apprise the prospective member of these provisions and shall present to 
her/him an Application for Membership and an Authorization for Checkoff of Dues, such forms 
to be provided by the Association. 
 
-13 
If  the  employee  desires  to  join  the  APA,  the  employee  shall  complete  both  the 
Application for Membership and the Authorization card for Checkoff of Dues and return them to 
the Association office. 
 
If the employee does not desire to join the APA, the employee shall complete only the 
-14 
Authorization  card  for  Checkoff of Dues, so that the APA may collect from the employee its 
service fees equal to the monthly dues, and return it to the Association Office. 
 
-15 
If the employee desires to tender dues or fees directly to the Association, the employee 
will so indicate on the Authorization for Checkoff of Dues form, which shall be transmitted to the 
Association on or before the 30th day of employment with dues or fees equivalent to 12 months' 
dues  or  fees.    Adjustment  of  dues  or  fees  shall  be  made  at  the  end  of  12  months from these 
receipts.  Excess amounts then will be returned to the employee within 10 days of demand and 
insufficient amounts will require payment within 10 days of notice.  Each year will again require 
deposit of such a sum by the procedure indicated above. 
 
-16 
During the life of this Agreement and in accordance with the terms of the authorization 
for  Checkoff  Dues,  the  Employer  agrees  to  deduct  membership  dues  or  service  fees  levied  in 
accordance with the Bylaws of the Association from the pay of each employee who executes or 
has executed the authorization for Checkoff of Dues. 
 
-17 
The  initial  deduction  for  any  employee  shall  not  begin  unless  the  authorization  for 
Checkoff of Dues and the certification of the APA's financial officer the amount of the periodic 
Association dues or service fees have been delivered to the Employer's Payroll Department at 
least 15 calendar days before the affected payday. 
 

9 

-18 
All  monies  deducted  by  the  Employer  shall  be  remitted  to  the  APA's  financial  officer 
once  each  month  by  the  20th  calendar  day  of  the  month  following  the  month  in  which 
deductions  were  made,  together  with  a  list  of  current  employees  showing  the  amount  of 
Association dues or service fees deducted from each employee's pay. 
 
-19 
In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment already made to APA by an 
employee, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the Bylaws of the Association, refunds 
to the employee shall be made by APA. 
 
-20 
The Employer shall not be liable to APA by reason of paragraph 16 of this Agreement for 
the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions made from 
the pay earned by the employee. 
 
-21 
The Employer shall not, during the life of this Agreement, deduct dues or service fees 
from employees in this Bargaining Unit for any organization other than the Association without 
APA's written permission. 
 
The  APA  shall  protect  and  save  harmless  the  Employer  from  any  and  all  claims, 
-22 
demands,  suits,  and  other  forms  of  liability  by  reason  of  action  taken  or  not  taken  by  the 
Employer for the purpose of complying with this Agreement. 
 
 

III.  SERVICE FEES 

 
Any  employee  in  the  bargaining  unit  who  does  not  make  application  for  membership 
-23 
within thirty (30) days from the date of commencement of employment in the bargaining unit 
shall, as a condition of employment, pay to the Association a Service Fee in an amount not to 
exceed  the  Professional  Dues  to  the  Association.    The  non-member  may  authorize  payroll 
deduction for such  fees in the same manner as provided for Association Dues. 
 
-24 
By  December  1  of  each  year  or  as  soon  as  possible  thereafter,  the  Association  shall 
provide written notice to all non-members of the Fee, an explanation of the basis for the Fee, and 
certification that said fee includes only those amounts legally assessed by the Association. 
 
-25 
In the event the non-member shall not pay the Service Fee directly to the Association, or 
authorize  payment  through  payroll  deduction,  the  Employer  shall,  upon  proper  written  notice 
from the Association, deduct the Service Fee from the employee=s wages and remit same to the 
Association pursuant to the conditions described in paragraph 26. 
 
-26 

A.    The  Association  shall  notify  the  employee  by  certified  mail  explaining  that  the 
employee  

is delinquent in not tendering Association Service Fees, specifying the amount of the delinquency  
and warning him/her that unless the delinquent fees are paid within ten (10) working days of such  
notice  or  unless  arrangements  are  made  with  the  Association  for payroll deduction of Service 

Fees  

 

 

10 

within ten (10) working days of such notice, the Association shall request that the Office of  
Employee Relations authorize deduction of Service Fees as provided in this Agreement. 
 

B.  If the Service Fees are not paid or arrangements for payment have not been made 

with  

the Association, the Association shall provide a copy of the letter sent to the employee and the 
following notice to the Office of Employee Relations at the end of the ten day period:  A The 
Association  certifies  that  ___NAME_____  has  failed  to  tender  the    periodic  and  uniformly 
required Association Service Fees required as a condition of  continued employment under the 
Collective Bargaining Agreement and demands that the Office of Employee Relations authorize 
payroll  deduction  of  such  Service  Fees  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  this  Agreement.    The 
Office of Employee Relations shall notify the Payroll Office and the Association within ten (10) 
working days that the Association is authorized to receive the delinquent Service Fees from the 
employees  through  mandatory  payroll  deductions  effective  with  the  next  payroll  cycle.    The 
Association shall notify Payroll of the names of the employees, amount of Service Fees owed 
and times of the deductions. 
 
Should the provision for payroll deduction of the Service Fee in paragraphs 25 and 26 
-27 
above  be  found  contrary  to  law,  the  parties  agree  to  reinstate  procedures  for  termination  of 
employment for failure to pay Association Service Fees. 
 

Termination of Limitation 

 
-28 
If an employee has tendered directly to the Association her/his membership dues or the 
service fee, or has a written authorization in effect requiring the deduction of dues or service fee, 
the employee shall not, under any circumstances, risk the loss of job because of a lack of good 
standing in the Association.  The Association cannot cause the discharge of an employee who 
has  resigned  from  or  has  been  expelled  by  the  Association  for  any  reason  other  than  her/his 
failure to tender the dues or service fee to the Association. 
 

Disputes Concerning Compliance 

 
-29 
The Association shall protect and save harmless the Employer from any and all claims, 
demands,  suits,  and  other  forms  of  liability  by  reason  of  action  taken  or  not  taken  by  the 
Employer for the purpose of complying with this Agreement. 
 

IV. 

Revocation Cards 

 
The Employer will notify the Association monthly of the names of employees transferred 
-30 
outside  the  Bargaining  Unit.    Such  employees  shall  cease  to  be  subject  to  dues/service  fee 
deductions at such time as they sign dues revocation cards and file notice with the Association. 

 

 

11 

ARTICLE 6ARTICLE 6 

 

ASSOCIATION RIGHTSASSOCIATION RIGHTS 

 

There  shall  be  no  discrimination  against  any  employee  because  of  his/her  duties  as  an 

The  Association  Chairperson  shall  have  the  right  to  enforce  the  provisions  of  this 

 
 
ASSOCIATION RIGHTS    
 
-31 
All employees and members of the bargaining unit and the lawful representative of the 
Association  shall  have  the  right  to  engage  in  any  lawful  concerted  action  or  activities  for  the 
purpose of collective bargaining or for the mutual aid and protection of the Association and its 
members. 
 
-32 
The Association shall be permitted to schedule meetings on University property so long 
as  such  meetings  are  not  disruptive  of  the  duties  of  the  employees  of  the  University  or  the 
efficient operation of the University. 
 
-33 
Agreement. 
 
-34 
Association official, representative or committee member. 
 
RELEASE TIME 
 
For the purpose of release time, the number of APA Executive Board members may not 
-35 
exceed  thirteen  (13).    The  total  aggregate  number  of  working  hours  of  release  time  for  these 
employees shall not exceed thirty-nine (39) hours per month excluding time afforded Grievance 
Officers and the Association Chairperson.  The Office of Employee Relations must receive notice 
of individuals and release time to be used at least two (2) working days in advance. 
 
-36 
A.  The Association Chairperson shall be authorized 100 percent release time to carry out 
the  responsibilities  of  his/her  office.    The  Employer  shall  pay  for  50%  of  his/her  salary  and 
benefits,  and  the  Association  shall  reimburse  the  Employer  for  the  remaining  50%  of  his/her 
salary and benefits at his/her rate of pay at the time he/she assumes office.  Applicable salary and 
progression increases shall be provided during his/her term of office. 
 
 
B.  When the Association Chairperson relinquishes his/her office, he/she shall have the 
right to return to the same classification in his/her former unit that he/she held immediately prior 
to  becoming  Association  Chairperson.    If  a  position  in  the  Association  Chairperson’s 
classification  no  longer  exists  in  his/her  former  unit,  then  he/she  shall  have  full  rights  under 
Article 16. 
 
-37 
An Association representative shall be allowed time off his/her job without loss of pay up 
to eight (8) hours per week to investigate grievance(s) he/she is to discuss or has discussed with 
the  Employer,  after  receiving  permission  from  his/her  supervisor  to  do  so.  Association Area 
 

12 

Representatives will be allowed time off their jobs without loss of pay for Association training 
with the express approval of Employee Relations.  The Association shall notify the Employer of 
the names of its Association representatives. 
The  Employer  agrees  that  accredited  representatives  of  the  Association  shall  have 
-38 
reasonable  access  to  the  premises  of  the  Employer  during  regular  business  hours  to  conduct 
Association  business.    Such  representatives  shall  give  advance  notice  of  their presence to the 
supervisor concerned and such visits shall not be disruptive of the Employer's operation. 
 
BARGAINING TEAM 
 
The bargaining team of  the Association will include not more than seven (7) bargaining 
-39 
unit members and two (2) alternate members employed by the University.  It may also include 
not more than two (2) non-employed representatives of the Association.  The Association will 
give  to  the  Employer,  in  writing,  the  names  of  its  employee  representatives  on  the  bargaining 
team at least sixty (60) days before the expiration date of this Agreement. 
 
-40 
negotiations with the Employer, but only for the straight time hours they would otherwise have 
worked on their regular work schedule.  For the purpose of computing overtime, time spent in 
negotiations shall be considered as hours worked to the extent of the regular work schedule hours 
that the team member otherwise would have worked. 

Employee members of the bargaining team will be paid by the Employer for time spent in 

 

 

13 

ARTICLE 7ARTICLE 7 

 

EMPLOYMENT STATUSEMPLOYMENT STATUS 

 
 
-41 
Employees have an employment status designated as regular, flexible, temporary, on-call 
or  off-date appointments.  The number of hours regularly scheduled to be worked each week 
may range from full-time to part-time. 
 

A. Status of Employment 

Regular:  Employee works a continuing schedule of predetermined hours each week. 

Flexible: 

Type 1: 

 
Type 2: 

full-time  active  employment  for  9,  10  or  11  months  per  year  with  a 
prescheduled unpaid leave of absence with benefits ("flex-leave") during the 
remaining months. 

75-89% scheduled time active employment over the entire calendar year (30-
35 hours per week) with part-time equivalent salary. 

Temporary:    Hired to work less than nine (9) months. 

Off-Date: 
 
a.  At the time of appointment to this position, an estimated ending or off-date is given.  
This  ending  date  is  the  latest  date  the  employee  is  intended  to  work.    It  may  be 
extended by written mutual agreement.  The employee shall be provided a forty-five 
(45) day notice of non-renewal of an Off-date appointment. 

 
b.  Off-date employees hired for nine (9) months or more are designated "regular." 
 
c.  Off-date employees are not eligible for University layoff procedures. 
 
B.  Hours of Employment 

Full-time: Scheduled to work regularly 36-40 hours per week. 

Three-quarter time:  Scheduled to regularly work at least 26 hours but less than 36 hours 
per week.  (Flex-Time:  Type 2 if 30-35 hours per week) 

One-half time: Scheduled to regularly work at least 20 hours but less than 26 hours per 
week. 
 

14 

 
-42 
 
-43 
 

 
-44 
 
-45 

 
-46 
 
-47 

 
-48 

 

 

 
-49 
Full-time employees who are involuntarily reduced to eighty-nine percent (89%) time or 
less shall have rights to vacant lateral or lower level positions.  The employing unit will determine, 
by interview, if the employee seeking bypass possesses the qualifications and ability to fill the 
vacant position. 
 
C. 
 
-50 
persons assigned less than full time in the following manner: 
   

Provisions  of  this  Agreement,  unless  specifically  modified,  shall  be  apportioned  to 

Proportional Benefits 

At least 26 hours but less than 36 hours 
At least 20 hours but less than 26 hours 

75% 
50% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a. 

Full-time Equivalent (FTE) Service Months 

 
D. 
 
-51 
Full-time  equivalent  (FTE)  service  month  is  defined  as  the  cumulative  full-time 
equivalent (FTE) months of service for University employment of 50.0% or greater.  FTE service 
months will be used in determining eligibility for University benefits that require a service waiting 
period. 
 

b. 

FTE service months will be credited each month as follows: 

a)    1.00 credit per month for full-time (90-100 percent) employees 

b)      .75 credit per month for 3/4 time (65-89.9 percent) employees 

c)      .50 credit per month for 1/2 time (50-64.9 percent) employees 

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

For  new  hires,  terminations,  percent  of  employment  changes,  etc.,  FTE  service 
months will be credited based on an employee's status as of the 15th of the month. 

Employees on paid and unpaid leaves of absence or layoff will continue to accrue 
FTE  service  months  for  up  to  (2)  years  of  the  leave  based on their percent of 
employment immediately before the leave/layoff.   

Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible to 
maintain  group  hospitalization  and  dental  insurance  and  receive  the  Employer's 
proportional contribution.  Retirees are required to enroll in both parts A and B of 
Medicare and pay the required premium when eligible.  University coverage shall 
become supplemental to Medicare. 

If  an  employee  retires  with  15  years  of  service  and  at  least  age  62,  use  the 
following FTE Service Months ranges to determine employer's health and dental 
contribution during retirement: 

15 

FTE SERVICE MONTHS 

  

1/2 Contribution 

 

3/4 Contribution 

 

Full Contribution 

(50% - 64.9%)  

 

(65% - 89.9%)  

 

 (90% - 100%) 

 

117.00 - 161.99 

 
Service 90.00 - 116.99   
Months 
 
If an Employee retires with 25 years of service at any age, use the following FTE service month 
ranges to determine employer's health and dental contribution during retirement: 
 
 

  162.00 - 999.99 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

FTE SERVICE MONTHS 

 

 

3/4 Contribution 

(65% - 89.9%)  

 

 

Full Contribution 

(90% - 100%) 

1/2 Contribution 

(50% - 64.9%)  

 

195.00 - 269.99 

 

270.00 - 999.99 

 
Service 150.00 - 194.99 
Months 

 

 

16 

ARTICLE 8ARTICLE 8 

 

PROBATIONARY/TRIAL PERIODPROBATIONARY/TRIAL PERIOD 

I. 

Probationary Period 

 
-52 
Employees shall serve a twelve (12) month probationary period beginning at the time of 
hire  as  a  new  employee  with  the  University  or  entry  into  the  Bargaining  Unit  from  other 
University employment.  The Unit Employer-Supervisor shall have the right to certify successful 
conclusion  of  the  probationary  period  before  the  end  of  the  twelve  (12)  months.    The  APA 
chairperson shall be notified upon early certification. 
 
-53 
An  interim  written  evaluation  shall  be  prepared  by  the  probationary  employee's 
supervisor, summarizing overall job performance, which shall be reviewed with the employee.  If 
a probationary employee's performance is unsatisfactory, such fact shall be communicated to the 
employee as soon as is practicable in order to give the employee the opportunity, if possible, to 
improve her/his performance. 
 
-54 
The  Association  shall  represent  probationary  employees  for  the  purposes  of  collective 
bargaining  with  respect  to  rates  of  pay,  wages,  hours  of  employment  and  other  conditions  of 
employment;  however,  no  matter  concerning  the  discipline,  layoff  or  termination  of  a 
probationary employee shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures. 
 

II. 

Trial Period 

 
 

 

 
-55 
An employee who changes classification within the Bargaining Unit shall serve a six (6) 
month  trial  period.    The  Association  would  not  object  to  certification  by  the  Unit  Employer-
Supervisor  before  the  completion  of  the  six  (6)  month  trial  period.    The  trial  period  may  be 
extended by the Employer for an additional six (6) months upon providing the employee written 
notice, which shall specify the reason for the extension, no less than five (5) calendar days before 
the completion of the original six (6) month trial period.  The determination to extend the six (6) 
month  trial  period  shall  not  be  grievable.    The  APA  chairperson  shall  be  notified  upon  early 
certification or extension. 
 
-56 
In the event the trial period is unsatisfactory or the employee does not wish to continue in 
the  position,  every  effort  will  be  made  to  return  the  employee  to  a  former  grade  level  and 
comparable classification, or, if no position is available, the employee will be placed on layoff 
with full recall rights. 
 

III. 

Termination of Probationary/Trial Period 

 
-57 
Following the giving of notice that a probationary or trial period is to be terminated early, 
any additional time served before actual severance may not be counted toward completion of the 
probationary or trial period. 
 

17 

ARTICLE 9ARTICLE 9 

 

SENIORITYSENIORITY 

 
 
-58 
Seniority  is  defined  as  the  length  of  continuous  employment,  except  as  provided  in 
paragraph  59  below,  starting  with  the  original  date  of  hire  with  the  University.    Periods  of 
authorized leaves of absence do not cause loss of seniority. 
 
-59 
 

Seniority rights are relinquished by the employee for the following reasons: 

Voluntary resignation 
Retirement 
Termination 
Failure  to  accept  recall  from  layoff,  provided  the  position  offered  was  at  a 
comparable compensation grade level to provide the employee 80% or more of 
his/her salary earned at the time of layoff. 
Failure to return from leave of absence. 
Failure to be recalled from layoff based on the following: 

University Seniority 

 

 

         Recall Rights 

A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 

E. 
F. 
 

 

        0 to  2 years 
        2 to 10 years 
      10 to 15 years 
      15 to 20 years 
      20 years plus 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Length of University Seniority 
2 years 
3 years 
4 years 
5 years 

 
-60 
Employees  returning  to  employment  with  the  University  within  twelve  (12)  months  of 
termination from University employment shall receive credit for all past seniority upon successful 
completion  of  a  six  (6)  month  trial  period.    Employees  returning  to  the University more than 
twelve (12) months after terminating will receive credit for past service after working for five (5) 
additional years.  Such prior service credit shall be applied toward retirement. 
 
-61 
benefits. 

Employees will receive service month credit for part-time service to qualify for retirement 

 

 

18 

ARTICLE 10ARTICLE 10 

 

SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTESSETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 

 

 
1. 

General Conditions 

 
-62 
At  any  hearing,  conference  or  meeting  that  may  result  in  disciplinary  action  to  an 
employee in the bargaining unit, the employee may and is encouraged to request the presence of 
an Association representative.  The employing department must, if requested by the employee, 
allow sufficient time for the employee to arrange to have Association representation. 
 
-63 
The parties agree that any individual employee at any time may present grievances to the 
Employer  and  have  the  grievances  adjusted,  without  intervention  of  the  Association,  if  the 
adjustment  is  not inconsistent with the terms of this Collective Bargaining Agreement now in 
effect,  providing  that  the  Association  has  been  given  the  opportunity  to  be  present  at  such 
adjustment. 
 
-64 
Grievances may be handled by no more than three (3) Association representatives in the 
processing or hearing of any grievance excluding the aggrieved employee(s).  Representatives of 
the Association engaged in processing or hearing any grievance during regular scheduled working 
hours shall be paid for such time lost at the  regular rate of pay, but in no event will more than 
three (3) representatives of the Association be paid for participation in any one session. 
 
The  Association  Grievance  Officer  may  represent  the  employee  at  all  steps  of  the 
-65 
grievance  procedure.    For  the  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the  term  "Grievance  Officer"  or 
representative shall include not more than four (4) Assistant Grievance Officers to be designated 
by the Association and identified to the Employer.  If the Association determines the need exists 
for additional Assistant Grievance Officers, the parties shall meet through a special conference to 
work to resolve the concerns raised by the Association. 
 
The  Association  Grievance  Officer  shall  be  allowed  time  off  without  loss  of  pay,  to 
-66 
investigate  grievance(s)  to  be  discussed  or  that  have  been  discussed  with  the  Employer  upon 
having received permission from his/her supervisor to do so.  The Association shall notify the 
Employer as to the names of its Grievance Officers. 
 
-67 
Grievance Officer is unavailable. 
 
-68 
 

An  alternate  Grievance  Officer  shall  be  designated  by  the  Association  to  act  when  the 

The Grievance Officer shall continue on his/her assigned duty during the term of office. 

Time Limits 

 
  When reference to calendar days is made in this Article, holidays shall not be considered 
-69 
in these time periods.  Time limits set forth in this grievance procedure shall be strictly adhered to 
 

19 

 

unless such time shall be extended by mutual agreement of the parties. 
-70 
Steps of the grievance procedure may be waived in writing by mutual agreement of both 
parties.    The  grievant  may  withdraw  a  grievance  at  any  step  of  the  procedure.    Grievances  so 
withdrawn shall not be reinstated. 
 
-71 
If the Employer fails to schedule a meeting or answer the grievance within the designated 
time limits, the grievance may be appealed to the next step of this grievance procedure within 
twenty-one (21) calendar days of the date of the expiration of the applicable time limit. 
 
-72 
If a grievance is not appealed within ten  (10) calendar days after receipt of the previous 
step  answer,  the  grievance  shall  be  considered  withdrawn  on  the  basis  of  the  Employer's  last 
answer and not be subject to further review. 
 

Computation of Back Wages 

 
-73 
No claim for back wages shall exceed the amount the employee would otherwise have 
earned  including  offsets  for  unemployment  compensation,  Workers’  Compensation  and  any 
replacement wages earned. 
 

II. 

Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge 

Any suspension or discharge of an employee shall be in writing.  In the event an 

 
-74 
employee is disciplined by written reprimand or written suspension or discharged by written 
notification, copies shall be given to the employee and mailed to the Association at the time it is 
given to the employee and a copy placed in the employee's official personnel folder.  Such notice 
shall be specific and outline the reasons for the disciplinary action. 
 
-75 
The  affected  employee  will  be  allowed  to  discuss  his/her  disciplinary  action  with  an 
Association representative, and the Employer will make available an area where he/she may do so 
if he/she is required to leave the premises. 
 
In imposing any discipline on a current charge, the Employer will not take into account 
-76 
any  prior  infractions  that  occurred  more  than  eighteen  (18)  months  previously  if  no  further 
disciplinary action has been taken during that time. 
 
-77 
Should the reprimand, suspension or discharge be considered without just cause, it shall 
be appealed as a grievance within twenty-one (21) calendar days after written notification of the 
discipline is received by the affected employee.  A grievance over a written letter of reprimand 
shall be submitted at Step 2 of the grievance procedure whereas a grievance over a suspension or 
discharge shall be submitted at Step 3.  Failure to submit a written grievance within the time limits 
shall constitute a waiver of all claims concerning such disciplinary action or discharge. 

 
 
 
 

 

 

20 

 
III. 

Grievance Definition and Procedure 

A grievance shall be defined as a written dispute concerning the interpretation, application 

Any employee having a dispute over the interpretation or application of the terms of this 

 
The following grievance procedure is established for use by Administrative Professional 
-78 
employees and the Association who feel they have a grievance or complaint alleging a violation, 
misinterpretation, or a misapplication of this Agreement. 
 
-79 
or alleged violation of any of the terms of this Agreement. 
 
-80 
Agreement shall present it to the Employer in a manner following. 
 
-81 
A group grievance shall be only one in which the fact(s) in question and the provisions of 
the Agreement alleged to be violated are the same as they relate to all employees in the identified 
group.  In the event that employees have a group grievance, the Grievance Officer shall submit 
the grievance on behalf of all affected employees.  When the affected group is contained within 
one  department,  college  or  division,  the  grievance  shall  be  initiated  at  Step  2  of  the  grievance 
procedure.  Any other group grievance shall begin at Step 3. 
 
-82 
Association Grievance Officer. 
 

At each step of the grievance procedure, the employee may request the presence of the 

Oral Step  

Step 1 

 
-83 
If an employee believes he/she has a problem in connection with his/her employment, 
he/she shall discuss it with his/her immediate supervisor within fourteen (14) calendar days after 
its  alleged  occurrence  or  the  date  the  employee  reasonably  should  have  knowledge  of  its 
occurrence. 
 

 
-84 
If the problem is not resolved, the grievance must be reduced to writing and presented to 
the immediate supervisor within fourteen (14) calendar days after its alleged occurrence or the 
immediate supervisor's response, in order to be a proper matter for the grievance procedure.  The 
grievance shall be dated and signed by the aggrieved employee and the Grievance Officer, and 
shall set forth the fact including the dates and provisions of this Agreement that are alleged to 
have  been  violated  and  the  remedy  desired.    The  grievance  shall  not  be  considered  submitted 
until  the  immediate  supervisor  receives  the  written  grievance.    The  immediate  supervisor  will 
schedule a meeting with the grievant and the Grievance Officer, if requested by the employee, 
within seven (7) calendar days from the day the written grievance was received.  The immediate 
supervisor  will  then  answer  the  grievance  in  writing  within  seven  (7)  calendar  days  from  the 
meeting at which the grievance was discussed. 
 

 

 

 

21 

 
-85 
Any  appeal  of  a  decision  rendered  by  the  immediate  supervisor  shall be presented in 
writing to the administrative head or designee within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the 
written  decision  of  the  immediate  supervisor.    The  appeal  shall  state  the  reason(s)  why  the 
decision of the immediate supervisor was not satisfactory.  The grievance shall not be considered 
appealed until the administrative head or designee receives it, dates it and returns a copy to the 
presenter,  which  shall  be  done  upon  presentment.    The  administrative  head  or  designee  shall 
schedule  a  meeting within seven (7) calendar days with the grievant, the Grievance Officer, if 
requested,  and  representatives  designated  by  the  Employer  to  discuss  the  grievance.    The 
administrative head or designee shall then give a decision in writing to the presenter within seven 
(7) calendar days of the meeting. 
 

 
If the answer from the administrative head or designee is not satisfactory, the Association 
-86 
shall submit an appeal within seven (7) calendar days of the receipt of the Step 2 answer to the 
Director of Employee Relations or designee, indicating the reasons why the written answer of the 
administrative  head  or  designee  was  unsatisfactory.    The  Office  of  Employee  Relations  will 
schedule a meeting between no more than three (3) representatives of the Association, excluding 
the grievant, and three (3) representatives of the Employer within seven (7) calendar days from 
the date the appeal is received to discuss the grievance.  The Office of Employee Relations will 
then answer the grievance in writing within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the meeting at 
which the grievance was discussed. 
 

 
 
Step 2 

Step 3 

Step 4 

 
-87 
If  the  Office  of  Employee  Relations'  answer  is  unacceptable,  settlement  may  be 
determined by a decision of an arbitrator selected by the parties.  The Association will notify the 
Office of Employee Relations within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the receipt of the Step 3 
answer if the Association wishes to appeal the grievance to arbitration, indicating why the  Office 
of Employee Relations' answer is not satisfactory.  In the event the Association and the Office of 
Employee Relations do not agree on an arbitrator within seven (7) calendar days, the Association 
shall file the demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association (AAA) or Federal 
Mediation  and  Conciliation  Services  (FMCS)  within  seven  (7)  calendar  days  of  failing  to 
mutually agree on an arbitrator.  The fees and approved expenses of an arbitrator will be paid for 
by the parties equally.  The rules of the AAA or FMCS shall apply to all arbitration hearings. 
 
-88 
The arbitrator shall have no power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the terms 
of this Agreement, nor shall he/she substitute his/her discretion for that of the Employer or the 
Association where such discretion has been retained by the Employer or the Association, nor 
shall he/she exercise any responsibility or function of the Employer or the Association. 
 
 

22 

 

-89 
The arbitrator shall have no authority to establish wage and salary scales, to change any 
wage or salary rate, or to change classification descriptions except as otherwise provided in this 
Agreement. 
 
-90 
Excluded  from  arbitration  are  disputes  and  unresolved  grievances  concerning  merit 
increase  decisions  and  those  matters  provided  for  in  provisions  on  Probationary  Employees, 
Filling Vacant Positions and Classification/Reclassification of Positions. 
 

Finality of Decisions  

 
The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon the Association and its members, 
-91 
the employee or employees involved, and the Employer.  However, either party retains all legal 
rights to challenge arbitration decisions thereof where such action is beyond the power of the 
arbitrator or where the award was procured by fraud, misconduct or unlawful means. 
 

IV. 

Special Conferences 

 
The Employer and the Association agree to meet and confer on matters of clarification of 
-92 
the terms of this Agreement or other items as mutually agreed.  Each party shall be represented 
by not more than four (4) persons at special conferences. 
 
-93 
Employees  released  to  attend  the  special  conference  may  meet,  if  on  the  Employer's 
property, at a place designated by the Employer for a period not to exceed one-half (1/2) hour 
immediately preceding the conference. 
 
-94 
Employees released to attend special conferences will be paid by the Employer for time 
spent  in  special  conferences,  but  only  for  the  straight  time  hours  they  would  otherwise  have 
worked on their regular work schedule. 

 

 

23 

ARTICLE 11ARTICLE 11 

 

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDERSOFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDERS 

 
 
-95 
Each employee shall have the right, upon request, to examine the content of her/his own 
Official Personnel Folder(s), the only exclusion being confidential pre-employment credentials of 
an evaluative nature. 
 
-96 
The employee shall make an appointment with the responsible managerial personnel to 
examine her/his Official Personnel Folder(s).  Managerial personnel shall be present when the 
employee examines her/his Official Personnel Folder(s), and the employee may be accompanied 
by a representative of the Association if the employee so desires.  The employee may designate 
in writing her/his desire to have a representative of the Association examine her/his file in her/his 
absence in a disciplinary matter, and the designated representative shall be allowed to examine 
the Official Personnel Folder(s). 
 
No derogatory statement about an employee of which the employee would not normally 
-97 
have a copy or be aware, shall be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder(s) unless the 
employee  is  provided  a  dated  copy.    The  employee  has  the  right  to  submit  a  statement(s) 
concerning  negative  evaluative  reports  for  inclusion  in  the  Official  Personnel  Folder(s).    Brief 
statements may be submitted for inclusion in the employee's Official Personnel Folder(s). 
 
-98 
Upon  an  employee's  written  request  to  the  Office  of  Human  Resource  Services,  any 
records of disciplinary action that occurred more than eighteen (18) months prior to the request 
shall be  removed from the Official Personnel Folder(s) if the employee's performance has been 
satisfactory  within  the  past  eighteen  (18)  months.    This  section  may  not  be  used  to  remove 
performance evaluations from the Official Personnel Folder(s). 

 

 

24 

ARTICLE 12ARTICLE 12 

 

PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONSPERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS 

 
 
-99 
To effectively review, monitor and recognize an employee's performance, it is the policy 
of  the  University  to  provide  Performance  Evaluations  annually  or  more  often  if  deemed 
appropriate  by  the  supervisor.    Performance  Evaluations  shall  become  part  of  the  employee's 
Official Personnel File.  The employee may place written comments regarding the performance 
evaluation in the Official Personnel File.  Whenever an employee receives an overall "Less Than 
Satisfactory" evaluation, the employee shall be reevaluated within ninety (90) days.  Before the 
reevaluation,  the  employee  may  request  and  shall  receive  a  conference  with  the  evaluator  in 
which such employee may have APA representation. 

 

 

25 

ARTICLE 13ARTICLE 13 

 

PROMOTION/DEMOTIONPROMOTION/DEMOTION 

 
 

A. 

Promotion 

 
-100  A "promotion" is defined as the movement of an employee to a higher grade level.  An 
employee promoted one grade level shall receive a minimum salary increase of five (5) percent or 
be placed at the minimum rate for the new level, whichever is greater.  An employee promoted 
two or more grade levels shall receive a minimum salary increase of ten (10) percent or placed at 
the minimum rate for the new grade level, whichever is greater.  The Employer is not prohibited 
from giving APA employees salary increases that exceed these minimums. 
 

B. 

Demotion 

 
-101  A "demotion" is defined as the movement of an employee to a lower grade level other 
than by reclassification or voluntary transfer.  The pay rate of an employee who is demoted will 
be reduced by five (5) percent if the grade level is lowered one grade level and ten (10) percent or 
more if the grade is lowered two or more grade levels.  The Employer may make exceptions to 
this provision when deemed appropriate. 

 

 

26 

ARTICLE 14ARTICLE 14 

 

FILLING VACANT POSITIONSFILLING VACANT POSITIONS 

 
 
-102  The recruitment of applicants and the filling of vacant positions is the responsibility of the 
Employer.  All candidates who possess the posted qualifications shall be considered to advance 
the concept of promotion from within the ranks of the University.  Human Resource Services will 
provide the employing department with a list of candidates.   In any instance when bargaining 
unit candidates possess the posted qualifications, at least five (5) of said candidates, if available, 
shall be interviewed. 
 
-103  The responsibility for determining which candidates shall be interviewed will reside with 
the employing department.  This determination will be based upon information obtained from the 
candidates'  credentials.    The  department  should  take  longevity  of  service  into  account  when 
determining  who  will  be  interviewed,  but  ability  to  do  the  work  shall  be  the  prime  factor  for 
setting the interview list. 
 
-104 
If  any  outside  candidate  is  hired  over  an  interviewed  employee  or  an  interviewed 
employee on layoff status, the Association shall be provided with a copy of the Position Vacancy 
Record, which will contain the reasons for selection and nonselection.  This shall be done in a 
timely manner.  If the procedures outlined above have been followed, the determination will not 
be grievable; however, the Association may request a Special Conference to discuss the issue. 
 
-105  Employees  will  be  given  reasonable  time  off  from  their  jobs  for  the  purpose  of 
interviewing for another University position.  Arrangements must be made in advance with their 
supervisor. 

 

 

27 

ARTICLE 15ARTICLE 15 

 

CLASSIFICATION/RECLASSIFICATION OF 

POSITIONSCLASSIFICATION/RECLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS 

 
 
-106  The Employer establishes and maintains a system for the evaluation and classification of 
all bargaining unit positions.  The authority to classify new positions, reclassify existing positions 
and eliminate positions is vested in the Office of Human Resource Services. 
 
-107  When a classification is established or modified, the grade level for the classification shall 
be  fixed  by  the  Employer  and  the  Association  shall  be  notified  before  implementation.    The 
compensation  level  shall  be  in  conformity  with  rates  established  for  positions  of  similar 
responsibility.  If there is a disagreement over the compensation assigned the position, a special 
conference may be scheduled with the Office of Employee Relations.  If the disagreement is not 
resolved, the Association may file a demand for arbitration within fourteen (14) calendar days of 
the special conference.  The Arbitrator shall be limited to determining the appropriateness of the 
compensation level assigned the position but shall be without power to assign a compensation 
level for the classification. 
 
-108  The  unit  administrator  will  normally  initiate  requests  for  position  reclassification.  
However, requests may be initiated by the Association.  Such requests shall be directed to the 
Assistant  Vice  President  for  Human  Resources,  whose  decision  on  the  request  shall  not  be 
subject to review or grievance.  If a request made under this paragraph is not approved, written 
reasons will be provided the Association. 
 
-109  The salary of an employee whose position is reclassified to a higher grade level shall be no 
less than the minimum salary of the higher grade level. 

 

 

28 

ARTICLE 16ARTICLE 16 

 

REDUCTION IN FORCEREDUCTION IN FORCE 

 
 
-110  A. 
The  University  endeavors  to  provide  continuing  employment  for  employees.  
However, reductions in work force may be necessary due to lack of funds, lack of work, and/or 
other  cause.    A  reduction  in  force  shall  not  be  used  for  constructive  discharge.    Whenever 
practicable, the reductions should be made by restricting recruitment, transfers to vacant lateral or 
lower  level  positions  where  the  employee  is  capable  of  performing  the  work  and/or  normal 
attrition, but if deemed necessary by the University, layoffs will be utilized. 
 

B.  While the employee is on layoff, the employer will make its normal contribution 
toward the cost of the health care coverage premium for two (2) months beyond the month of 
separation due to layoff. 
 

General Provisions: 

 
-111  For purposes of layoff only, layoffs shall be within units identified below (see paragraph 
118). 
 
-112  Employees to be laid off shall be given at least 45 calendar days notice, not to be offset by 
accrued vacation.  A copy of the layoff notice will be sent to the Association Chairperson. 
 
-113  Within  a  unit,  probationary  employees  will  be  separated  before  non-probationary 
employees  are  laid  off,  where  the  non-probationary  employees  are  able  to  perform  the  work 
within a 90 day evaluation period. 
 

A.  Where ability to perform the work remaining is equal, the Employer will follow 

these priorities for reduction in force: 
 

1. 

Temporary before permanent. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

2. 

Employees with unsatisfactory records before employees with satisfactory 
records.    In  the  case  of  evaluations,  an  employee  shall  not  be  considered 
unsatisfactory  until  the  employee's  performance  is  determined  to  be 
unsatisfactory in two consecutive evaluations. 

3. 

Employees with short service before employees with long service. 

 

29 

1. 
2. 
3. 

Must be a regular employee. 
Must have been scheduled to work half-time or more. 
Must have completed the probationary period. 

 
-116 
In the event that during a period of layoff there is a vacant position, the employee with the 
greatest length of service will be recalled to vacant positions first, provided he/she is capable of 
performing the duties of the position within a ninety (90) day evaluation period.  An employee 
who meets the minimum requirements for a vacant position and who  is denied the ninety (90) 
day evaluation period shall receive written reasons why the employee was not selected for the 
evaluation period with a copy to the Chairperson of the Association. 
 
-117  An  employee  on  layoff  status  will  lose  all  recall  rights  and  be  terminated  upon  the 
occurrence of any of the following: 
 

A. 
B. 

C. 

Unreasonable refusal to be available for an interview. 
Refusal to accept a position offered if the salary offered is equivalent to eighty (80) 
percent or more of the employee's salary before layoff. 
Expiration of the recall eligibility period referred to in the provision on seniority. 

-114  Recall from Layoff. 
  Recall is the reinstatement of a laid-off employee to active status 
within the period as defined in the provision on seniority.  In the event of recall, the employee 
will retain the original service date and will receive FTE service credit for up to two (2) years for 
the  period  of  layoff  as  specified  in  Article  7,  paragraph  51,  d.    Accrued  sick  leave  will  be 
reinstated when the employee returns to work.  Copies of notices of recall shall be sent to the 
Association Chairperson. 
 
-115  To  be  eligible  for  recall  from  layoff,  the  employee  must  satisfy  the  following 
requirements: 
 

 
-118  Units 
 
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
 
Office of the President 
Internal Audit 
 
OFFICE OF THE PROVOST AND VICE PRESIDENT FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
 
Office of the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs 
Office of the Vice Provost for Libraries, Computing and Technology 
Office of the Vice Provost for University Outreach 
Office of the Associate Provost 
Office of the Assistance Provost and Assistant Vice President for Academic Human Resources 
Office of the Assistant Provost for Academic Student Services and Multicultural Issues 
Office of the Assistant Provost for Undergraduate Education and Academic Services 
 

30 

 

Secretary for Academic Governance 
Office of Academic Human Resources 
Administrative Information Services 
Office of Admissions and Scholarships 
Department of Aerospace Studies 
Office for Affirmative Action Compliance and Monitoring 
Broadcasting Services 
Clinical Center 
Computer Laboratory 
Office of Curriculum & Catalog Support 
Enrollment Services 
Facilities Planning and Space Management 
Faculty Grievance Official 
Office of Financial Aid 
MSU Health Team Administration 
Honors College 
Instructional Media Center 
Libraries 
Department of Military Science 
MSU Press 
Office of Planning and Budgets 
Olin Health Center 
Ombudsman 
Performing Arts Facilities & Programs 
Office of the Registrar 
Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities 
Student Athlete Support Services 
Supportive Services 
Teaching Assistant Program 
Office of the Director, Undergraduate University Division 
University Archives & Historical Collections 
Upward Bound 
Women's Resource Center 
 
 
OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR RESEARCH AND GRADUATE STUDIES 
 
Office of the Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies 
Research Development 
Research Services and Industry Assistance 
University Laboratory Animal Resources 
Museum 
Office of Radiation, Chemical, and Biological Safety 
 
 
 

31 

 

 
THE GRADUATE SCHOOL 
 
 
VICE PRESIDENT FINANCE AND OPERATIONS AND TREASURER 
 
Office of the Vice President for Finance and Operations and Treasurer 
Police and Public Safety 
Campus Park and Planning 
Contract and Grant Administration 
Controller 
Forest Akers Golf Courses 
University Services 
Housing and Food Services 
Physical Plant 
Human Resources 
Intercollegiate Athletics  
Investments and Trusts 
Land Management 
Planning and Budgets 
 
 
VICE PRESIDENT FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS AND SERVICES 
 
Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and Services, and  
     Assistant Vice President for Educational and Support Services 
Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and Services and Director of  
      Student Life 
Special Assistant to the Vice President for Coordinated Minority Student  
      Programs 
Counseling Center 
Intramural Sports and Recreative Services 
Department of Residence Life 
Career Development and Placement Services 
 
 
VICE PRESIDENT FOR UNIVERSITY RELATIONS 
 
Office of the Vice President for University Relations 
University Publications 
Sports Information 
Public Relations 
News Bureau 
 
 
 

32 

 

 
VICE PRESIDENT FOR DEVELOPMENT 
 
Office of Vice President for Development 
MSU Foundation 
Development Fund 
 
 
COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES 
 
Vice Provost/Dean of ANR 
Agriculture and Natural Resources Dean 
CANR External Relations 
MSU Extension Director's Office 
CYF 4-H Youth 
CYF Food, Nutrition, Health and Family Strengths 
CANR Public Service Activities 
ANR Education and Communication Systems 
Agricultural Economics 
Agricultural Engineering 
Animal Science 
Crop and Soil Sciences 
Fisheries and Wildlife 
Institute for Food Law and Regulations 
Food Science and Human Nutrition 
Extension AOE Team Support 
Forestry 
Horticulture 
Michigan Agricultural Experiment Station 
Michigan Travel, Tourism & Recreation Research Center 
Packaging 
Park, Recreation and Tourism  
Resource Development 
Agricultural Technology Institute 
International Agriculture Institute 
University Farms 
Land Management 
Water Research Institute 
Bailey Scholars Program 
Integrated Plant Systems 
Kellogg Biological Station 
 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
 
Office of the Dean, Arts and Letters 
 

33 

 

American Studies Program 
American Thought and Language 
Ancient Studies 
Art 
Center for Great Lakes Culture 
Center for Integrative Studies in Arts and Humanities 
Center for Language Education and Research 
Comparative Literature Program 
English 
English Language Center 
Film Studies Program 
History 
Interdisciplinary Program in Health and Humanities 
Jewish Studies Program 
Kresge Art Museum 
Language Learning Center 
Linguistics and Germanic, Slavic, Asian and African Languages 
MATRIX 
Music 
Philosophy 
Religious Studies 
Residential Options in Arts and Letters 
Romance and Classical Languages 
Theatre 
Women's Studies Program 
The Writing Center 
 
 
THE  ELI  BROAD  COLLEGE  OF  BUSINESS  AND  THE  ELI  BROAD  GRADUATE 
SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT 
 
Office of the Dean, Broad College of Business 
Accounting 
Economics 
Executive Development Programs 
Finance 
The School of Hospitality Business 
Institute of Public Utilities 
International Business Center 
Lear Corporation Career Services Center 
Management 
Marketing and Supply Chain Management 
MBA Programs 
 
 
 

34 

 

 
COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION ARTS AND SCIENCES 
 
Office of the Dean, Communication Arts and Sciences 
Advertising 
Audiology and Speech Science 
Communication 
Journalism 
Telecommunication 
 
 
NATIONAL SUPERCONDUCTING CYCLOTRON LABORATORY 
 
 
COLLEGE OF EDUCATION 
 
Office of the Dean, College of Education 
Counseling, Educational Psychology and Special Education 
Educational Administration 
Kinesiology 
Teacher Education 
 
 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
 
Office of the Dean, Engineering 
Case Center for Computer-Aided Engineering and Manufacturing 
Chemical Engineering 
Civil and Environmental Engineering 
Composite Materials and Structures Center 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Electrical and Computer Engineering 
Division of Engineering Computer Services 
Mechanical Engineering 
Materials Science and Mechanics 
Division of Engineering Research 
 
 
COLLEGE OF HUMAN ECOLOGY 
 
Office of the Dean, College of Human Ecology 
Family and Child Ecology 
Human Environment and Design 
Institute for Children, Youth and Families 
 
 

35 

 

 
COLLEGE OF HUMAN MEDICINE 
 
Office of the Dean, College of Human Medicine 
Cancer Center 
Center for Ethics and Humanities in the Life Sciences 
Family Practice 
Institute for Managed Care 
Pediatrics and Human Development 
Medicine 
Obstetrics, Gynecology & Reproductive Biology 
Office of Medical Education Research & Development 
Physiology 
Psychiatry 
Surgery 
 
INTERNATIONAL/STUDIES AND PROGRAMS 
 
Office of the Dean, International/Studies and Programs 
African Studies Center 
Asian Studies Center 
Center for Latin and Caribbean Studies 
Canadian Studies Centre 
Center for European and Russian Studies 
Center for Advanced Studies of International Development 
Office for International Students and Scholars 
Office of Study Abroad 
Office of Women and International Development 
 
 
JAMES MADISON COLLEGE 
 
 
COLLEGE OF NATURAL SCIENCE 
 
Office of the Dean, Natural Science 
Abrams Planetarium 
Center for Advanced Microscopy 
Center for Biological Modeling 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology 
Botany and Plant Pathology 
Cell and Molecular Biology 
Chemistry 
Drew Laboratory 
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Program 
 

36 

 

Entomology 
Center for Fundamental Materials Research 
Genetics Program 
Geological Sciences 
Center for Integrative Studies – General Science 
Kellogg Biological  Station 
KBS Maintenance 
Lyman Briggs School 
Center for Material Research Operations 
Mathematics 
Center for Microbial Ecology 
Microbiology and Molecular Genetics 
Medical Technology Program 
MSU-DOE Plant Research Laboratory 
Neuroscience Program 
Off-Campus Credit Program - CNS 
Pesticide Research Center 
Physics and Astronomy 
Physiology 
Division of Science and Mathematics 
Center for New Plants Products and Technology 
Statistics and Probability 
Synthesis Lab/Chemistry 
Zoology 
 
 
COLLEGE OF NURSING 
 
Office of the Dean, College of Nursing 
Health Promotion Programs 
 
 
COLLEGE OF OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE 
 
Office of the Dean, College of Osteopathic Medicine 
Family and Community Medicine 
Internal Medicine 
Osteopathic Manipulative Medicine 
Osteopathic Surgical Specialties 
Pediatrics 
Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology – COM 
Microbiology & Molecular Genetics – COM 
Neurology and Ophthalmology - COM 
Pharmacology & Toxicology – COM 
 

37 

 

Physiology – COM 
Psychiatry - COM 
Radiology – COM 
Institute for International Health - COM 
 
 
COLLEGE OF SOCIAL SCIENCE 
 
Office of the Dean, College of Social Science 
Anthropology 
Geography 
Political Science 
Psychology 
Sociology 
Criminal Justice 
Labor and Industrial Relations 
Social Work 
Institute for Public Policy and Social Research 
Center for Advanced Study of International Development 
Center for Integrative Studies 
Center for Remote Sensing 
Julian Samora Research Institute 
 
 
COLLEGE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE 
 
Office of the Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine 
Institute for Environmental Toxicology 
Microbiology and Molecular Genetics  
Large Animal Clinical Sciences 
National Food Safety & Toxicology Center 
Small Animal Clinical Sciences 
Animal Health Diagnostic Laboratory 
Veterinary Pathology 
Veterinary Teaching Hospital 
Veterinary Technology Program 
 
 
URBAN AFFAIRS PROGRAMS 
 
 
MSU ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
 
 

 

 

38 

STATE NEWS 
 
 
VICE PRESIDENT FOR GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS 
 
 
VICE PRESIDENT FOR LEGAL AFFAIRS AND GENERAL COUNSEL 
 
 
-119  Layoff Transition Adjustment 
 

An employee shall be eligible for a Layoff Transition Adjustment if the affected employee 

meets the following eligibility requirements: 
 

The Employee must have six (6) or more years of seniority at the time of layoff. 

The Employee must actually be laid off. 

The  Employee  must  be  willing  to  take  a  position  paying  at  least  80  percent  of 
current salary. 

The Layoff Transition Adjustment is not payable until after the affected employee 
is on layoff for a minimum of 120 calendar days. 

1. 
 
2. 
 
3. 

 
4. 

 

In the event the laid off employee meets the criteria set forth above, the employee may, at his/her 
option, elect to accept a Layoff Transition Adjustment based on the following schedule: 
 

University Seniority 

 

Transition Adjustment 

 
6 years  
 
7 years  
 
8 years  
 
9 years  
 
           10 years 
 
           11 years 
 
           12 years 
 
           13 years 
 
           14 years 
 
           15 years 
           16 years 
 
           17 years or more 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

     4 weeks salary 
     5 weeks salary 
     6 weeks salary 
     7 weeks salary 
     8 weeks salary 
     9 weeks salary 
   10 weeks salary 
   11 weeks salary 
   12 weeks salary 
   13 weeks salary 
   14 weeks salary 
   15 weeks salary 

 

 

 
An Employee who elects to receive the Layoff Transition Adjustment will no longer be eligible 
for  recall.    An  employee  who  may be eligible for University Retirement may elect the Layoff 
Transition  
 

39 

Adjustment and still be eligible for all benefits afforded a retiree. 
 
 
120  Unused Sick Leave Credits 
 

A laid off employee whose recall rights have expired and who is not otherwise eligible for 
payout of accrued sick leave under paragraphs 192, 193 and 194 of this agreement may receive 
partial payment for unused sick leave credits according to the schedule below: 
 
University Seniority 
 
2 years throuth 10 years 

Sick Leave Payout 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
-121  For  purposes  of  Paragraph  120,  “University  Seniority”  is  that  which  existed  as  of  the 
effective date of the layoff. 
 
-122  An employee who  receives payment for unused sick leave under this section may also 
receive a Layoff Transition Adjustment, provided that eligibility requirements for that program 
have been met. 
 

 
11 years through 15 years 

 
16 years through 20 years 

 
More than 20 years 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Unused sick leave, not to exceed one-eighth 
 (1/8) of up to 1200 hours 

Unused sick leave, not to exceed one-fourth 
(1/4) of up to 1200 hours 

Unused  sick  leave,  not  to  exceed  three-
eighths (3/8) of up to 1200 hours 

Unused  sick  leave,  not  to  exceed  one-half 
(1/2) of up to 1200 hours 

 

 

40 

ARTICLE 17ARTICLE 17 

 

COMPENSATION PROGRAMSCOMPENSATION PROGRAMS 

I. 

General Increase 

 
-123  Effective October 1, 2000, three (3) percent general salary increase monies calculated on 
the September 30, 2000 total salary base will be made available for all employees who received a 
satisfactory rating on the latest employee evaluation.   For purposes of this provision, an 
employee shall not be considered unsatisfactory until the employee’s performance is determined 
to be unsatisfactory in two consecutive evaluations.  General salary increase monies will be 
allocated in the following manner: 
 

Three (3) percent will be made available for all eligible employees, sixty (60) percent of 
which will be allocated on the basis of merit consideration and forty (40) percent of which 
will be allocated across the board. 

 

 

 

 

1.  On October 2, 2000 a 1% of base salary lump sum (not in the base)  will be paid to 

each employee on the payroll as of October 1, 2000. 

  
 
-124  Effective October 1, 2001, three (3) percent general salary increase monies calculated from 
the September 30, 2001 total salary base will be made available for all employees who received a 
satisfactory rating on the latest employee evaluation.   For purposes of this provision, an 
employee shall not be considered unsatisfactory until the employee’s performance is determined 
to be unsatisfactory in two consecutive evaluations.  General salary increase monies will be 
allocated in the following manner: 
 

Three (3) percent will be made available for all eligible employees, sixty (60) percent of 
which will be allocated on the basis of merit consideration and forty (40) percent of which 
will be allocated across the board. 

 
 
-125  Effective October 1, 2002, one (1) percent general salary increase monies calculated from 
the September 30, 2002 total salary base will be made available for all employees who received a 
satisfactory rating on the latest employee evaluation.   For purposes of this provision, an 
employee shall not be considered unsatisfactory until the employee’s performance is determined 
to be unsatisfactory in two consecutive evaluations.  General salary increase monies will be 
allocated in the following manner: 
 

One (1) percent will be made available for all eligible employees one hundred (100) 
percent of which will be allocated across the board. It is understood and agreed that the 
merit program described in A and B, above, is being waived for the October 1, 2002 
general salary increase only, on a one-time basis, and the merit pay program shall not be 
considered ended as a result of this provision and shall continue in full force and effect. 

41 

-126  All  funds  made  available  by  the  Employer  for  general  increases  shall  be  expended  on 
salaries of employees in the bargaining unit. 
 
-127  Special merit salary increases may be granted during the contract year with appropriate 
approvals. 
 
 

II. 

Salary Progression Program 

 
-128  Salary  Progression  increase  consideration  will  be  given  to  employees  who  have 
completed at least one (1) year of service on the effective date of the increase, whose current 
performance  is  determined  to  be  not  less  than  satisfactory,  and  whose  salary  is  less  than  one 
hundred twenty-five (125) percent of the minimum hiring level. 
 
-129  Employees  shall receive a progression increase upon completion of one year, for the first 
year only. 
 
-130  Effective  January  1,  2001,  eligible  employees  will  receive  progression  increases  in  the 
amount  of  three  (3)  percent  up  to  the  125%  level.    Employees  will  not  receive  progression 
increases if they have less than a satisfactory overall rating on the latest employee evaluation. 
 
-131  Effective  January  1,  2002,  eligible  employees  will  receive  progression  increases  in  the 
amount  of  three  (3)  percent  up  to  the  125%  level.    Employees  will  not  receive  progression 
increases if they have less than a satisfactory overall rating on the latest employee evaluation. 
 
-132  Effective  January  1,  2003,  eligible  employees  will  receive  progression  increases  in  the 
amount  of  three  (3)  percent  up  to  the  125%  level.    Employees  will  not  receive  progression 
increases if they have less than a satisfactory overall rating on the latest employee evaluation. 
 
 

III.  Minimum Hiring Rates 

 
-133  The minimum hiring rate for grade levels may be increased by the Employer. 
 
-134  Effective  October  1,  2000  the  Minimum  Hiring  and  Automatic  Progression Levels will 
increase by 3%. 
 
-135  Effective October 1, 2001 the Minimum Hiring and Automatic Progression Levels will 
increase by 3%. 
 
-136 Effective October 1, 2002 the Minimum Hiring and Automatic Progression Levels will 
increase by 1%. 
 
 
 
 

 

42 

IV. 

SALARY SCHEDULES 

 
-136  Effective  October  1,  2000  through  September  30,  2001,  the  Minimum  Hiring  and 
Automatic Progression Level rates are: 
 

Grade Level 

 

 

 

 

Progression Level 

8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
 

8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 

Minimum 
$25,003 
$27,015 
$29,164 
$31,510 
$34,026 
$36,736 
$39,674 
$42,849 
$46,274 

$25,753 
$27,825 
$30,039 
$32,455 
$35,047 
$37,838 
$40,864 
$44,134 
$47,662 

$31,254 
$33,769 
$36,455 
$39,388 
$42,533 
$45,920 
$49,593 
$53,561 
$57,843 

$32,191 
$34,781 
$37,549 
$40,569 
$43,809 
$47,298 
$51,080 
$55,168 
$59,578 

-137  Effective October 1, 2001, the Minimum Hiring and Automatic Progression Level rates 
are: 
 

Grade Level 

  

 

Minimum 

 

 

Progression Level 

 
-138  Effective October 1, 2002, the Minimum Hiring and Automatic Progression Level rates 
are: 
 

Grade Level 

  

 

Minimum 

 

 

Progression Level 

8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 

$26,011 
$28,103 
$30,339 
$32,780 
$35,397 
$38,216 
$41,273 
$44,575 
$48,139 

43 

$32,514 
$35,129 
$37,924 
$40,975 
$44,246 
$47,770 
$51,591 
$55,719 
$60,174 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

44 

 
 

A. 

Overtime 

ARTICLE 18ARTICLE 18 

 

SPECIAL PROVISIONSSPECIAL PROVISIONS 

 
-139  Bargaining Unit Employees in grade levels AP 08, 09, 10, and 11 will receive overtime 
payment at the rate of time and one-half for scheduled hours worked in excess of 40 in a work 
week.  Compensatory  time  at  the  same  rate  may  be  used  where  mutually  agreed  to  by  the 
employee and the Unit Administrator. 
 
-140 
In health care delivery facilities where bi-weekly work schedules of eighty (80) hours are 
maintained,  overtime  pay  or  compensatory  time  off  will  be  given  for  any  scheduled  hours 
worked in excess of eighty (80) hours in a bi-weekly period. 
 
-141  Paid  time  (vacation,  sick  leave,  holiday,  personal  leave,  compensatory  time,  jury  duty, 
military leave and bereavement leave) is considered as time worked for the purpose of overtime 
computation.    Overtime  premium  shall  not  be  pyramided,  compounded  or  paid  twice  for  the 
same time worked. 
 
-142  Unit administrators or designees are responsible for the approval of overtime prior to the 
performance  of  overtime  work.    Approval  means  time  worked  as  directed  by  the  employee's 
supervisor and does not include casual or unscheduled time spent at work beyond the normal 
work day or work week. 
 
-143  Employees at grade level AP 12 and above are not  eligible for overtime pay.  However, 
where  unusual  staffing  and  work  requirements  exist,  the  unit  administrator  may  approve 
compensatory time off equal to the number of overtime hours worked. 

 

 

45 

ARTICLE 19ARTICLE 19 

 

LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAYLEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY 

 
 
-144  The University grants eligible employees leave of absence with pay in accordance with 
provisions  as  stated  here.    The  types  of  leave  of  absence  with  pay  are:    bereavement  leave, 
holidays, jury duty, military duty, personal leave, sick leave and vacation. 
 
-145  While  on  leave  of  absence  with  pay,  the  employee  will  retain  all  previously  earned 
benefits, and will continue to accrue vacation and sick leave credits.  Compensation will be at the 
employee's base rate of pay as of the employee's last day of active work.  Benefit programs and 
University contributions to benefits programs will continue during leave of absence with pay.  
See sections on benefits for details on types of leaves. 

 

 

46 

ARTICLE 20ARTICLE 20 

 

LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAYLEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY 

 
 
ABSENCES WITHOUT PAY (10 DAYS OR LESS) 
 
-146  Excused  absences  without  pay  less  than  10  days  may  be  granted  by  the  immediate 
supervisor but shall not exceed ten (10) consecutive days unless approved as a leave of absence.  
Normally,  excused  absences  without  pay  will  not  exceed  ten  (10)  working  days  in  each  fiscal 
year. 
 
-147  Excused absences without pay will not require the use of accrued paid time (i.e., personal 
leave or vacation), except for failure to report to work due to inclement weather. 
 
ABSENCES WITHOUT PAY INCLUDING LAYOFF (EXCEEDING 10 DAYS) 
 
-148  All leaves of absence must be approved by the supervisor, the administrative head of the 
unit and the Office of Human Resource Services.  They may be taken for reasons as specified in 
paragraph 152. 
 
-149  During an unpaid leave of absence or layoff, an employee will not accrue vacation or sick 
leave nor be  eligible for any payments for time off work provided by this Agreement (except 
excused absences without pay). 
 
-150  Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shall accumulate 
during leaves of absence or extensions and layoffs. 
 
-151  The employee must consult with the Benefits Office about maintaining status in employee 
benefit  programs  during  leaves  of  absence  without  pay  subject  to  and  consistent  with  these 
program conditions. 
 
-152  Eligible  employees  with  the  approval  of  their  supervisor(s)  and  the  Office  of  Human 
Resource  Services  may  be  authorized  to  take  unpaid  leaves  for  up  to  two  (2)  years  for  the 
following: 
 

A. 

Sickness and disability. 

 

 

 

 

B. 

C. 

 
D. 

Settlement of an estate. 

Serious  illness  of  a  member  of  the  employee's  family  as  defined  under  the 
bereavement leave provisions of this Agreement. 

Child care when the employee is the parent or designated guardian. 
 

47 

(1) 
 
(2) 

 
(3) 

Parent or guardian must provide evidence that the child needs special care. 

Evidence  demonstrating  that  only the parent or guardian can deliver this 
special care. 

Such special care would require absence from work. 

Employees  who  become  parents  of  or  who  adopt  a  child  shall  be  entitled  to 
parental or adoption leave of up to three (3) months to commence on or before the 
date of birth or the date of adoption as determined by the employee. 

Governmental  service  if  elected  to  a  full-time  term  of  office,  and  if  holding  an 
elective office.  Subsequent elections shall extend this leave. 

Educational leave after two (2) years of employment. 

To accompany spouse when spouse accepts University reassignment from MSU. 

Extended vacation after two (2) years of employment. 

 
E. 

 
F. 

 
G. 
 
H. 
 
I. 
 
J. 

Other reasons deemed appropriate by the Employer. 

 
-153  During an involuntary leave of absence without pay, the employee's position shall not be 
considered vacant and the employee shall be entitled to return to the position if such return is 
within ninety (90) days of the commencement of the leave.  An involuntary leave is defined as a 
leave required because of illness or incapacitation--medically certified.  If the employee is unable 
to return to her/his job within 90 days, the employee shall have bypass rights, in accordance with 
paragraph 116, to vacant lateral or lower level positions for a period of time not to exceed two (2) 
years from the original date of the involuntary leave. 
 
-154  The  Employer,  at  its  option  and  without  cost  to  the  employee,  may  require  that  a 
designated  physician(s)  examine  the  employee  before  returning  the  employee  to  active 
employment. 

 

 

48 

ARTICLE 21ARTICLE 21 

 

VACATION PAYVACATION PAY 

 
 
-155  Accrued Vacation Leave Carryover 
 

Earning 
    Rate   

 

 

Service Months 
 
Grade levels 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 & 15 
 
Completion of first 
   6 months service 
 
7th month through 
   60th month   
 
60th month through 
   120th month  
 
121st month 

   48 hrs. 

 

 

 

 

8 hrs./month 

12 hrs./month    

16 hrs./month    

 
 

 

Annual 
Accrual 

  96 hrs. 

144 hrs. 

192 hrs. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

Maximum 
   Accrual   

     120 hrs. 

     180 hrs. 

      240 hrs. 

 

     90 hrs. 

 
Grade Level 16 
 
Completion of first 
  6 months service 
 
7th month 
 
 
-156  Employees  accrue  vacation  pay  credits  at  the  rate  shown  above  for  each  completed 
month of service.  Service includes work time and "Leave of Absence with Pay" time, but does 
not include: 
 

 16 hrs./month    

      240 hrs. 

192 hrs. 

 

 

 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

Leave of absence without pay. 
Regular Workers’ Compensation. 
Layoff. 
Disciplinary suspension. 

 
 

 

Usage Requirements: 

 
-157  An  employee  may  take  vacation  at  any  time  during  the  year  with  permission  of  the 
 

49 

supervisor and in accordance with departmental requirements. 
 
-158   Vacation is to be taken and reported in full hour increments. 
 
-159  A maximum of eight (8) hours pay may be made for each day of vacation.  This may vary 
for persons on a flexible appointment. 
 
-160  Each hour paid to an employee shall be paid at the base rate of pay, and shall not include 
shift premium or other premium payments. 
 
-161  University designated holidays falling within the employee's vacation will not be charged 
to accrued vacation. 
 
-162  While on vacation, an employee may not change usage for time taken for other forms of 
paid leave, except for a documented illness. 
 
-163  The  employee  will  normally  use  all  vacation  before  commencing  a  leave  of  absence 
without pay, except for sickness or disability. 
 
-164  Vacation may be used to supplement Workers’ Compensation up to a maximum of eight 
(8) hours total pay for each day of absence. 
 
-165  Part-time employees scheduled to work at least 26 hours per week but less than 36 shall 
be credited with 75% of the vacation accruals shown above for full-time employees. 
 
-166  Part-time employees scheduled to work at least 20 hours per week but less than 26 shall 
be credited with 50% of the vacation accruals shown above for full-time employees. 
 
-167  Part-time employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked 
because of the vacation. 
 
-168  Employees are expected and encouraged to take their annual vacation accrual each year.  
With supervisory approval, an employee may continue to accrue vacation up to the Maximum 
Accrual  shown  under  the  Accrual  Schedule  section.    Further  accrual  beyond  this  Maximum 
Accrual is not possible, and the employee will receive no further vacation credit for months of 
service completed until the employee reduces vacation credits. 
 
-169  An employee will receive payment for unused vacation when terminating employment. 

 

 

50 

 

July 1 - December 31 
January 1 - March 31 
April 1 - May 31 
June 1 - June 30 

24 
12 
6 
0 

18 
9 
4.5 
0 

12 
6 
3 
0 

ARTICLE 22ARTICLE 22 

 

PERSONAL LEAVE DAYSPERSONAL LEAVE DAYS 

 
 
-170  The  University  grants  eligible  employees  paid  time  off  in  order  to  attend  to  personal 
matters.  Employees on the payroll as of July 1, will be credited with 24 hours of personal leave 
for use during the fiscal year (July 1 - June 30).  Employees who are hired, rehired, or change to 
regular status of half-time or more during the fiscal year will be credited with personal leave as 
follows: 
 

ON THE PAYROLL FULL-TIME  

3/4 TIME 

 

1/2 TIME 

 
-171  Begins on date of hire, rehire, or change to regular status of half-time or more.  Personal 
leave days should be approved by the employee's supervisor, in advance if possible.  Personal 
leave is to be taken and reported in one hour increments.  A maximum of eight (8) hours' pay 
may be made for each day of absence (may vary for persons on a flexible appointment).  Each 
hour paid to an employee shall be paid at the base rate of pay and shall not include shift premium 
or other premium payment.  The employee may use all personal leave days before commencing a 
leave  of  absence  without  pay.    Personal  leave  days  may  be  used  to  supplement  Workers’ 
Compensation up to a maximum of eight (8) hours' total pay for each day of absence.  Personal 
leave days may not be used to provide payment for absence due to disciplinary suspension. 
 
-172  Part-time employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked 
because of the approved absence.  Personal leave credits may not be carried forward to the next 
fiscal  year.    No  payment  for  unused  personal  leave  credits  will  be  made  when  the  employee 
terminates. 

 

 

51 

 

HOLIDAYSHOLIDAYS 

ARTICLE 23ARTICLE 23 

 
 
-173  The University grants eligible employees paid holidays from work with no loss in pay.  
Regular  staff  working  half-time or more and scheduled to work receive the following nine (9) 
days as holidays: 
 

New Year's (2 days) 
Memorial Day 
Independence Day 
Labor Day 
Thanksgiving 
Friday after Thanksgiving 
Christmas (2 days) 

 
-174  Each year the University designates the dates on which the holidays are to be observed.  
The  additional  days  at  Christmas  and  New  Year's  are  observed  either  before  or  after  the  legal 
holiday. 
 
-175  An employee is eligible for the holiday pay at the date of hire, rehire or change to regular 
status  of  half  time  or  more.    The  employee  must  be  on  active  status  at  the  time  the  holiday 
occurs.    The  benefit  is  not  payable  to  employees  who  are  on  leave  of  absence  without  pay, 
regular Workers’ Compensation, layoff or disciplinary action.  Holiday pay is not payable if the 
employee has an unexcused absence on either the day before or the day after the holiday. 
 
-176  A maximum of eight (8) hours' pay may be received for each holiday.  Each hour paid to 
an employee shall be paid at the employee's base rate of pay and shall not include any other 
premium payment. 
 
-177  When a holiday falls during an employee's vacation or paid sick leave, the employee will 
receive holiday pay and no charge will be made to accrued sick leave or vacation time.  Part-time 
employees  will  be  paid  only  for  the  hours  scheduled  to  work  but  not  worked  because  of  the 
holiday.  When a holiday falls on an employee's non-work day and no other day is designated by 
the University, an alternate day off will be given.  Time and one-half is paid for those eligible to 
receive  overtime  for  work  performed  on  the  observance  date  of  the  holiday  and  not  on  the 
calendar date of the holiday, if different.  In addition, an alternate day off will be given. 

 

 

52 

ARTICLE 24ARTICLE 24 

 

SICK LEAVESICK LEAVE 

 
 
-178  The University grants regular staff working half-time or more and temporary staff working 
half-time or more, paid time off due to illness.  Employees accrue sick leave credits in accordance 
with the following requirements. 
 
-179  Employees  begin  earning  sick  leave  credits  upon  hire  or  rehire.    Full-time employees 
accrue sick leave at the rate of four (4) hours for each completed two (2) weeks of service (104 
hours annually).  Service includes work time and "Leave of Absence with Pay" time, but does not 
include: 
 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

Leave of absence without pay. 
Regular Workers' Compensation. 
Layoff. 
Disciplinary suspension. 

 
-180  Sick leave is credited at the end of each month and may accumulate to a maximum of 
1,200 hours. 
 
-181  Sick leave with pay may be used for the following reasons: 
 

Personal illness or incapacity over which the employee has no reasonable control 
that prohibits the performance of the duties of the employee's job. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 
 

 

Absence from work because of exposure to contagious disease that, according to 
public health standards, would constitute a danger to the health of others by the 
employee's attendance at work. 

To complete appointments for medical or dental treatment when it is not possible 
to arrange such appointments for nonduty hours. 

Twenty-four  (24)  hours  of  accrued  sick  leave  per  fiscal  year  may  be  used  for 
illness  of  a  member  of  the  immediate  family  as  defined  in  paragraph  254  or  a 
member of the household.  An additional forty (40) hours may be used for the 
care of dependent children, parents or spouse who are ill.  The total number of 
hours shall not exceed sixty-four (64). 

Illness or incapacity associated with pregnancy (see Maternity Leave section). 

 
-182  A  physician's  statement  may  be  required  before  approval  of  payment  of  sick  leave.  
Payment  of  sick  leave  is  authorized  in  tenths  of  an  hour.    Reporting  of  cumulative sick leave 
 

53 

usage is made in full hour increments. 
-183  A maximum of eight (8) hours pay may be made for each day of absence (may vary for 
persons on a flexible appointment).  Each hour paid to an employee shall be paid at the base rate 
of pay and shall not include shift premium or other premium payment. 
 

Coordination With Other Types of Pay or Benefits 

 
-184  Employees must utilize any accrued sick leave credits and may thereafter use vacation 
and  personal  leave  day  credits  before  being  placed  on  an  unpaid  leave  of  absence  due  to 
illness/disability. 
 
-185  The University, for cause, may direct an employee to go on sick leave. 
 
-186  Employees  may  be  required  to  obtain  approval  from  the  University  physician  before 
returning to work. 
 
-187  Workers’ Compensation benefits will be supplemented by accrued sick leave credits as 
necessary to maintain the employee's total income at an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours of 
pay at the base rate of pay for each day of absence. 
 
-188  University  designated  holidays  falling  within  an  employee's  paid  sick  leave  will  not  be 
charged to sick leave. 
 

Full-time/Part-time Status Considerations: 

 
-189  Part-time employees scheduled to work at least 26 hours per week but less than 36 shall 
be credited with 75 percent of the sick leave accruals shown above for full-time employees. 
 
-190  Part-time employees scheduled to work at least 20 hours per week but less than 26 shall 
be credited with 50 percent of the sick leave accruals shown above for full-time employees. 
 
-191  Part-time employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked 
because of the sick leave. 
 

Other Provisions 

 
-192  An employee will not receive payment for unused sick leave when terminating, except 
when retiring, as stated below. 
 
-193  Full-time employees meeting the University's minimum retirement requirements shall be 
paid for 50% of unused sick leave, but not to exceed a maximum of 50% of up to 1,200 hours, as 
of the effective date of separation. 
 
-194  Full-time employees who do not meet the University's minimum retirement requirements 
but  have  at  least  five  (5)  years,  but  less  than  10  years  of  continuous  service,  and  who  have 
 

54 

 

attained 65 years of age at the time of separation shall be paid 50% of unused sick leave as of the 
effective date of separation. 
-195  Full-time employees who do not meet the University's minimum retirement requirements 
but have at least 10 years of continuous service and have attained 65 years of age at the time of 
separation, shall be paid 100% of unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation, not to 
exceed a maximum of 1,200 hours. 

 

 

55 

ARTICLE 25ARTICLE 25 

 

MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCEMILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE 

 
 
-196  Employees who are reinstated in accordance with the Universal Military Training Act, as 
amended,  and  other  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  will  be  granted  leaves  of  absence  for  a 
period equal to their seniority, but not to exceed two (2) years (without pay), to attend school full 
time under applicable federal laws in effect on the date of this Agreement. 
 
-197  An employee who fails to notify the Employer of his/her intent to return within thirty (30) 
calendar days of the expiration of a leave of absence in excess of one (1) year duration will be 
given written notice within twenty-one (21) calendar days prior to the expiration of said leave. 
 
-198  Upon application, a military leave of absence (without pay) will be granted to employees 
who  are  employed  in  other  than  temporary  positions.    This  applies  to  employees  who  are 
inducted  through  a  selective  service  system  of  voluntary  enlistment  and  to  employees  called 
through membership in the National Guard or reserve component into the Armed Forces of the 
United States. 

 

 

56 

ARTICLE 26ARTICLE 26 

 

MATERNITY LEAVEMATERNITY LEAVE 

 
 
-199 
Initially, the employee must submit a letter from a physician giving the projected delivery 
date.  The Office of Human Resource Services will not require further medical documentation 
covering absences for a pregnancy when they occur within a period of four weeks before the 
projected  delivery  date  and  eight  weeks  following  the  delivery  date.    Beyond  these  periods,  a 
statement will be required from the employee's physician stating the reasons for the requested 
leave extension.  Leaves associated with pregnancy may be either with or without pay, depending 
on accumulated sick leave or vacation leave. 

 

 

57 

ARTICLE 27ARTICLE 27 

 

FLEXIBLE APPOINTMENTSFLEXIBLE APPOINTMENTS 

 
 
-200  Flexible  appointments  are  appointments  of  Administrative  Professional  staff  providing 
between 75 and 95 percent time equivalent salary over a calendar year, with some fringe benefits 
equivalent to full-time appointments.  A flexible appointment is a voluntary commitment by an 
employee to a specific schedule of work.  Flexible appointments may be in one of the following 
forms: 
 

Full-time, active employment for 9, 10 or 11 months per year with a 
prescheduled  unpaid  leave  of  absence  with  benefits  ("flex-leave") 
during the remaining months. 

Type 1: 

 
Type 2: 

75-89%  scheduled  time  active  employment  over  the  entire  calendar 
year (30-35 hours per week) with a part-time equivalent salary. 

 
-201  As with any Administrative Professional position, job demands may require work outside 
and in addition to those of the regularly scheduled flexible schedule. 
 
-202  Where  a  Type  1  flexible  appointment  includes  a  leave  with  benefits,  the  employee's 
position is held for his/her return at the end of the flex-leave, subject to the conditions specified 
in paragraph 228. 
 
-203  The  objective  of  flex-year  appointments  is  to  achieve  budget  flexibility  where 
departmental  functions  can  be  accomplished  with  75  percent  employment,  through  a 
combination of benefits and other incentives. 
 
-204  Departments  identify  positions  for  flexible  appointments.    Regular  employees  and 
persons  to  be  employed  in  those  pre-identified  positions  may  agree  to  be  placed  in  flexible 
appointments.    Employees  desiring  flexible  appointments  whose  positions  are  necessarily  full 
time may apply for transfers to flexible appointments, subject to relevant policies and negotiated 
agreements.    When  a  department  desires  to  change  a  position  from  full  time  to  a  flexible 
appointment and the incumbent does not volunteer for that status, reduction in force procedures 
may  be  initiated  to  achieve  the  reduction  within  the  department.    If  a  flexible  appointment 
position  is  subsequently  eliminated,  reduction  in  force  procedures  will  be  initiated.    Staff 
members with flexible appointments who later desire a change in appointment may apply for 
other positions as they become available. 

 

 

58 

GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
 

A. 

Flexible Positions 

 
-205  The  department  administrator  shall  identify  the  positions  appropriate  for  flexible 
appointments and, if specific duties are to be eliminated, indicate in writing the duties of such 
positions that are to be eliminated.  This designation must be approved by the Director of Human 
Resource Services, after receiving employee input. 
 
-206  Once  a  position  is  officially  designated  as  flexible,  only  flexible  appointments  are 
acceptable. 
 
-207  A flexible position shall maintain that designation until the department administrator acts 
to designate it otherwise by submitting the appropriate form for the approval of the Director of 
Human Resource Services. 
 

B. 

Flexible Appointments 

 
-208  A flexible appointment, either as an initial appointment or as a change of appointment, 
may  be  granted  only  with  the  agreement  of  a  prospective  or  current staff member.  Without 
agreement, a current staff member may be subject to the Reduction in Force policy. 
 
-209  A flexible appointment must be arranged in advance with an employee, and approved by 
the departmental administrator and the Director of Human Resource Services. 
 
-210  All flexible appointments will  annually provide a minimum of 1,560 hours of scheduled 
work (subject to necessary reductions in force). 
 
-211  A flexible appointee's FTE salary is the amount that would be paid if an entire year was 
worked in full time (e.g., $1,000/month x 12 months = $12,000).  The  base salary is the actual 
expected pay during the year.  For example, if the FTE salary is $12,000, base salary at 75 percent 
would be: 
 

Type 1:  $1,000 x 9 months = $9,000;     Type 2:  $750 x 12 months = $9,000 

 
-212  Flexible appointees are regular AP employees. 
 
-213  Leaves  with  benefits  may  be  established  for  periods  of  one  month  or  more,  up  to  a 
maximum of three months (in increments of one month). 
 
-214  Leaves with benefits are only those that are prearranged as part of an approved flexible 
appointment. 
 
 
 
 

59 

 

If  the  flexible  appointment  converts  to  full-time  status,  the  employee  will  receive  an 

-215  No Unemployment Compensation is paid during a leave with benefits.1 
 
-216 
appropriate salary adjustment. 
 
-217  Employees volunteering for flex-leaves must sign the PAN form signifying their voluntary 
concurrence with their change in status.  This action is subject to the review and approval of the 
Office of Human Resource Services. 
 
FRINGE BENEFITS: 
 
-218  A flexible appointee's benefit eligibility during active flexible status and unpaid flex-leave 
is as follows: 
 
-219  Flexible appointees: 
 

1. 

Receive the University contribution toward health care. 

2. 

3. 

Have Long-Term Disability, Dental and Expanded Life Coverage.2 

May  maintain  group  life  and  optional  accident  coverage.    Prior  to  a  flex-leave, 
advance  deductions  for  applicable  employee  contributions  for  health,  life  and 
accident coverage are automatically taken to cover the flex-leave period.  In the 
event that insufficient notice of flex-leave is received, the Benefits office will bill 
employees for these amounts. 

 

 

 

                                                   
1Inasmuch as appointees on flex-leave have neither been laid off nor terminated but are on a 
mutually agreed-upon leave of absence, they are ineligible for Unemployment Compensation.  If 
Unemployment Compensation is sought by the employee, the leave with benefits is voided and 
the employee shall be placed on layoff status, without application of reduction in force 
provisions. 
 
2Subject to all current eligibility requirements.  Staff members otherwise eligible for Long-Term 
Disability continue their eligibility during the leave with benefits as well as during active 
employment; however, benefit payments do not  begin during the leave with benefits.  The base 
salary for the period of active employment before the flex-leave is used to determine benefits. 
 

60 

-220  Educational Assistance is available, subject to all other eligibility requirements.  However, 
Type  1  flexible  appointees  will  be  allowed  to  "bank"  educational  assistance  for  use  during 
nonwork  flex-leave  periods  for  up  to  five  credits  for  each  semester  of  employment,  up  to  a 
maximum  of  14  credits  per  year.    Banking  educational  assistance  will  be  available  only  to 
employees  on  flex-leave.    All  other  provisions  of  the  educational  assistance  program  must  be 
satisfied.  The application for banked educational assistance program must identify the employee 
as a flex appointee. 
 
-221  Personal Leave Days will be credited on a proportionate basis, i.e., 3/4 time service (either 
Type1 or 2 Flex) will receive up to 18 hours in credits each year according to the Personal Leave 
Days schedule. 
 
-222  Full  service  credit  is  given  toward  retirement,  benefits  eligibility  waiting  periods  and 
vacation service months. 
 
-223  Paid leave accruals are proportionate and are accrued as follows: 
 

Type  1:      During  active,  full-time  service,  the  employee  accrues  leave  as  a  full-time 
employee.  During a flex-leave, paid leave does not accrue and may not be utilized (it is 
frozen subject to relevant policies). 
 
Type 2:  During the entire calendar year, the employee accrues leave at a proportionate 
rate (unless additional leaves without pay are taken or the employee's status changes). 
 

-224  University Contribution to Base Retirement Plan and Social Security.3 
 

Type 1:    During active full-time service, the employee receives University contributions 
based  on  his/her  full-time  salary.    No  University  contributions  are  made  while  the 
employee is on a leave with benefits. 
 
Type  2:        The  employee  receives  the  University  contributions  during  the  entire  year, 
based on his/her part-time equivalent salary. 

 
-225  All salary-related benefits (paid leave, Employee-Paid Life, Base Retirement Plan, Long 
Term  Disability,  Expanded  Life  Plan,  Extended  Disability,  and  longevity)  are  based  upon  the 
flexible appointee's base salary.  The longevity cap will be that of full-time employees. 

                                                   
3Subject to all current eligibility requirements. 
 

 

61 

 
-226  Flex-leaves may begin during a probationary period; however, the time spent on the flex-
leave will not count toward completion of the probationary period. 
 

Other Employment 

 
-227  Staff members may work for other employers while on flex-leave. 
 

Return to Active Employment 

 
-228  Staff members returning from a flex-leave are assigned to their previously held positions, 
unless the circumstances of the University change to the extent that the position no longer exists. 
 Those affected by a reduction in force while on flex-leave are eligible for the provisions of the 
reduction  in  force  policy.    Affected  staff  members  will  be  given  written  notice  as  soon  as 
practicable, but no less than that stipulated in the reduction in force policy. 
 

Salary Payments 

 
-229  Flexible appointees receive their base salary during their period of active service and no 
salary during flex-leave. 
 

Hours Worked Records 

 
-230  Departments  are  responsible  for  maintaining  records  of  hours  worked  for  nonexempt 
employees with flexible appointments. 
 
-231  A position held by an employee that is changed to a flexible appointment, and some of 
whose duties are thereby eliminated, shall not be downgraded or eliminated as a direct result of 
the flexible appointment. 
 
-232  Disagreements in the interpretation or application of the flexible appointment policy shall 
be subject to the grievance procedure and immediately proceed to Step three.   
 
-233  At the time of presentation of a voluntary flexible appointment form to any employee, the 
employee shall be advised in writing: 
 

a) 

For a Type 1 flexible appointment, the length of time of the unpaid leave, and the 
time or times when said leave must be taken. 

OTHER PROVISIONS 
 

Probationary Periods 

 
b) 

 

 

 

For a Type 2 flexible appointment, the schedule each week that the employee shall 
be required to work. 

62 

-234 
In  addition,  each  employee  shall  receive  at least 10 working days' written notice of the 
proposed  flexible  appointment  before  being  required  to  respond.    An  affected  employee  may 
consult with a representative of the Association before making a voluntary election to accept a 
flexible appointment. 
 
 

 

 

63 

ARTICLE 28ARTICLE 28 

 

LONGEVITY PAYLONGEVITY PAY 

 
 
-235  A longevity pay plan to recognize long-term employment is provided after six (6) years of 
continuous service with the University to regular staff working half time or more. 
 
-236  The  longevity  year  is  the  12-month period beginning October 1 each year, and ending 
September 30.  The last date of hire will be used as the longevity date.  The employee must be 
engaged in active employment for 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) and be on the payroll as 
of October 1 of the longevity year.  Six (6) years or more of continuous service as of October 1 of 
the longevity year is required for eligibility. 
 
-237  Eligible employees who have periods of inactive service totaling 93 days or more during a 
longevity year will not receive a longevity payment that year and will have the longevity date 
adjusted for future years. 
 
-238  Military leave of absence will not adjust the longevity date. 
 
-239  Full-time employees who terminate before October 1 who are 65 years of age and have 
five  (5)  or  more  years  of  full-time  service,  or  who  meet  the  minimum  University  retirement 
requirements will receive a prorated longevity payment. 
 
-240  Employees who are not on the active payroll because of layoff, but who otherwise meet 
the eligibility criteria will receive a longevity payment. 
 
-241  Employees who are on leave of absence on October 1, but otherwise meet the eligibility 
criteria will receive a longevity payment upon return to work.  Payment is scheduled annually on 
the first working day of December and is computed as a percentage of the employee's annual 
base rate of pay as of September 1 of the calendar year in which the longevity payment is made.  
Base rate of pay shall not include overtime or premium pay. 
 
-242 
rate of pay upon his/her return.  Longevity pay shall not exceed the longevity pay schedule. 
 

If an employee is not on the payroll September 1, the rate to be used is the employee's 

 

 

64 

Payment Schedule: 
 

 

Years of Continuous   
           Service               

Annual Longevity Pay % of First 
       $9,500 of Annual Wage           

 
Three-quarter time employees:  % of first $7,125 of annual wage. 
 
One-half time employees:  % of first $4,750 of annual wage. 

 6 through   9 years 
10 through 13 years 
14 through 17 years 
18 through 21 years 
22 through 25 years 
26 or more years 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

2% 
3% 
4% 
5% 
6% 
8% 

 

 

65 

ARTICLE 29ARTICLE 29 

 

JURY DUTY PAYJURY DUTY PAY 

 
 
-243  The University recognizes the civic responsibility of employees to serve on jury duty and 
makes provision for eligible employees to perform such duty without loss of pay.  Employees 
who are called to serve on jury will be compensated for the difference between pay received from 
the  court  and  straight  time  base  pay.    Employees  who  are  called  to  testify  pursuant  to  court-
issued subpoenas will receive jury duty pay in that event also. 
 
-244  Benefit begins on date of hire, rehire, or change to regular status of half-time or more.  
The  employee  must  notify  supervision  of  the  call  to  jury  duty  as  soon  as  the  information  is 
known and must provide proof of the call to jury duty and proof of jury duty pay.  The employee 
is expected to report for regular University duty when temporarily excused from attendance at 
court.    When  called  to  testify,  the  employee  must  provide  proof  of  subpoena  and  proof  of 
witness fee or proof that no witness fee was provided. 
 
-245  For each work day of full or partial absence due to jury duty, and provided the employee 
returns  to  regular  University  duty  when  temporarily  excused  from  attendance  at  court,  the 
employee will receive the difference in pay between: 
 

Pay received from the court (or witness fees) and, 

a. 
 
b. 

Regular  straight  time  base  pay,  excluding  shift  premium  or  other  premium 
payment, for the hours absent from work. 

If the employee is otherwise eligible for holiday pay, holiday pay may be made if jury 

  
 -246 
duty is interrupted by a legal holiday recognized by the University. 
  
 -247  Part-time employees will be paid the difference in pay only for the hours scheduled to 
work but not worked because of jury duty. 

 

 

66 

ARTICLE 30ARTICLE 30 

 

MILITARY DUTY PAYMILITARY DUTY PAY 

  
  
 -248  The  University  recognizes  the  value  of  the  military  reserve  and  makes  provision  for 
eligible employees to attend short-term military duty without loss of pay. 
  
 -249  The University will pay the difference between the employee's military pay and base pay, 
if the employee's military pay is less, for up to 15 calendar days when the employee is ordered to 
active duty for training, and for up to 10 additional calendar days when the employee is ordered 
to active duty for the purpose of handling civil disorders, per fiscal year. 
  
 -250  Begins  on  date  of  hire,  rehire,  or  change  to  regular  status  of  half-time or more.  The 
employee must notify supervision of the call to military duty as soon as the information is known 
and must provide proof of the call to military duty and proof of military pay. 
  
 -251  For  each  full  work  day  of  absence,  the  employee  will  receive  the  difference  in  pay 
between: 
  

Regular military pay less any amounts specifically received for meals, housing or 
travel, and 

Eight (8) hours of regular pay at the base rate of pay, excluding shift premium or 
other premium payment. 

a. 

 
b. 

 

-252  An employee may use accrued vacation time in addition to receiving military duty pay.  
Part-time  employees  will  be  paid  the  difference  in  pay  between  the  total  military  duty  pay 
received  and  the  employee's  base  pay  for  the  total  hours  scheduled  to  work  but  not  worked 
because of the military duty, if the military duty pay is less. 

 

 

67 

ARTICLE 31ARTICLE 31 

 

BEREAVEMENT DAYSBEREAVEMENT DAYS 

 
 
-253  The University grants eligible employees paid time off to attend the funeral and/or make 
necessary arrangements when a death occurs in the employee's immediate family. 
 
-254  Regular staff working half time or more are eligible for bereavement leave upon the date 
of hire, rehire or change to regular status of half time or more. 
 
-255  Up to three (3) bereavement days will be allowed in the case of death of the employee's: 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Spouse 
Child 
 
Brother 
Sister 
 
Parents 
Grandparents-in-law 
Qualified same-sex domestic partner 
 
One  (1)  day  will  be  allowed  in  the  case  of  death  of  an  employee's,  or  an  employee's 

 
Mother-in-law 
Son-in-law 
Daughter-in-law 
 
Sister-in-law 

Step-Parents 
 

Brother-in-law 

Father-in-law 

 
Grandchild 
Half-Brother 
Half-Sister 
 
 

Grandparents   
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

spouse's uncle, aunt, nephew or niece, or a member of the employee's household. 
 
-256  The  supervisor  may  require  proof  of  death  and  relationship  to  the  deceased  before 
approving payment.  A maximum of eight (8) hours' pay may be made for each day of absence.  
Each hour paid to an employee shall be paid at the employee's straight time base rate of pay and 
shall not include shift premium or other premium payment.  This benefit is payable only to active 
employees whose absence from work is due to the death in the employee's family and will not be 
paid in lieu of other types of paid leave. 
 
-257  Part-time employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked 
because of the death. 
 
-258  Allowed bereavement days may be taken any time during the period including the day of 
death and the day following the funeral. 
 
-259  The supervisor may grant permission to a reasonable number of employees to attend the 
funeral or serve as pallbearers for a deceased employee or former employee, without loss of pay. 

 

 

68 

ARTICLE 32ARTICLE 32 

 

OVERVIEWOVERVIEW 

 
 
-260  This section presents a broad overview of the various benefit programs, education and 
retirement  benefits  available  to  employees  and  eligible  dependents.    Each  benefit  plan  is 
described  briefly  on  the  following  pages.    Complete  information  and  descriptive  details  of 
benefits  may  be  obtained  from  the  Benefits  Office  or  the  referred  division  within  Human 
Resource Services.  If there is any misunderstanding regarding any of the programs described 
below, the provisions of the Master Contracts on file will prevail. 
 
-261  Wherever  the  term  "full-time  employee"  is  used,  this  is  understood  to  include  those 
employees on flexible appointments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

69 

 

ARTICLE 33ARTICLE 33 

 

RETIREE/OVER 65 LIFE PROGRAMRETIREE/OVER 65 LIFE PROGRAM 

 
 
-262  The  University  provides  a  death  benefit  of  $2,000  for  regular  full-time staff who were 
insured  under  the  Employee-Paid  life  insurance  program  prior  to  July  1,  1976,  and  have 
maintained continuous coverage in that program. 
 
-263  Eligible staff shall have a death benefit of $2,000 upon attainment of age 65 or at official 
University  retirement,  whichever  occurs  first.    The  University  pays  the  cost  of  the  benefit.  
Coverage is automatic once the participation requirements are met. 

 

 

70 

ARTICLE 34ARTICLE 34 

 

ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PROGRAMACCIDENTAL DEATH 

AND DISMEMBERMENT PROGRAM 

 
 
-264  The  University  provides  an  optional  accidental  death  and  dismemberment  program  for 
regular full-time and part-time staff.  The benefit is payable, in whole or in part, in the event of 
accidental death, dismemberment, or loss of sight.  Benefit coverage may be selected in amounts 
from $10,000 to $250,000 depending on plan selected.  Coverage may also be selected for eligible 
dependents in the following manner: 
 

Spouse coverage:  40% of employee coverage (50% if, on the date of the accident, 
the insured has no dependent children insured). 

a) 

 
b) 

 

Children coverage:  5% of employee coverage (10% if, on the date of the accident, 
the employee has no spouse insured). 

-265  The program is entirely funded from employee premiums, and rates are subject to future 
group  experience.    Employees  may  enroll  within  60  days  of  initial  employment  or  during  a 
scheduled open enrollment period. 

 

 

71 

ARTICLE 35ARTICLE 35 

 

DENTAL PLANDENTAL PLAN 

 
 
-266  The  University  provides  a  dental  plan  for  all  regular  full-time  employees,  part-time 
employees  on  a  proportional  basis  (see  Article  7,  paragraph  50)  and  official  Michigan  State 
University retirees. 
 
-267  Dental  coverage  is  provided  for  eligible  employees,  retirees,  survivors  of  retirees  and 
eligible dependents.  The plan pays 50% of usual and customary charges for most dental services 
as  defined  in  the  Master  Policy.    Employees  must  enroll  within  sixty  (60)  days  of  initial 
employment  or  during  a  scheduled  open  enrollment.    Coverage  terminates  at  the  end  of  the 
month  employment  terminates  unless  the  employee  is  an  official  Michigan  State  University 
Retiree.  This benefit continues for employees on layoff or on approved leave of absence. 
 
-268  Benefit payments are limited each calendar year to $600 for each person.  Orthodontic 
services are covered for persons under age 19 and are limited to a separate lifetime maximum of 
$600.  Under the current provisions, the University pays the entire cost of the plan. 
 
-269  No  application  is  necessary  and  coverage  is  automatic  upon  employment.    Coverage 
terminates on the employee's last day of employment unless the employee is an official Michigan 
State University retiree.  This benefit continues for employees on layoff or on approved leave of 
absence. 
 
-270  Dependent  coverage  terminates  as  above.    In  addition,  certain  changes  in  dependent 
status will terminate coverage for dependents.  No conversion is possible. 
 
-271  A Dental HMO option will be offered to employees in the bargaining unit effective July 1, 
1995.  The premium cost of the Dental HMO shall not be greater than the cost of the traditional 
Delta Dental Plan premium.  Coverage for the dental HMO must be provided through one of their 
participating centers.  Some benefits, such as diagnostic, preventive and minor restorations are 
provided at no cost, and other benefits are provided with a fixed dollar copay.  Orthodontic 
services are covered for persons under age 19 and age 19 and over with a fixed dollar copay. 
 
-272  The dental plan benefits will be provided consistent with the carriers’ conditions and 
procedures. 
 
 
 

 

 

72 

ARTICLE 36ARTICLE 36 

 

EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLANEMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLAN 

 
 
-273  The University provides an optional employee paid life plan for regular full-time and part-
time employees.  The benefit is payable in the event of death, or for other reasons as defined in 
the Employee Paid Life Plan brochure. 
 
-274  Eight plans of coverage are offered.  Four of the plans provide "fixed" amounts of life 
coverage based upon flat monthly premiums.  The other four options provide "salary indexed" 
life benefits, which are a multiple of annual salary.  Contributions for the salary indexed options 
are a percent of salary.  Benefits may also be selected for eligible dependents.  The benefit is 
decreasing  term  with  no  cash  or  loan  value.    The  program  is  entirely  funded  from  employee 
contributions, and rates are subject to future group experience.  Employees may enroll within 
sixty (60) days of initial employment or during a scheduled open enrollment period. 

 

 

73 

ARTICLE 37ARTICLE 37 

 

EXTENDED DISABILITY LEAVEEXTENDED DISABILITY LEAVE 

 
 
-275  The  University  provides  an  interim  income  protection  plan  for  regular  full-time  staff 
expected to receive Long-Term Disability benefits.  The benefit provides full base wage/salary in 
cases  expected  to  result  in  total  disability,  as  defined  in  the  Long  Term  Disability  Master 
Contract, for a period of up to one hundred eighty (180) days from the employee's last day of 
active  work.    The  benefit  commences  upon  the  expiration  of  all  accrued  sick,  vacation  and 
personal leave. 
 
-276  Determination of whether a case is expected to result in total disability can sometimes be 
made by the University-designated physician based on information received from the employee's 
physician and other medical reports.  A lack of conclusive medical evidence may delay approval 
of the Extended Disability Leave benefit, until Long-Term Disability benefits are approved.  If so, 
payments will be made on a retroactive basis.  In these cases, it is necessary for the employee to 
maintain benefit payments.  Reimbursement will be made for University contribution amounts 
upon approval for Extended Disability Leave. 
 
-277  Employees  expected  to  return  to  work  within  one  hundred  eighty  (180)  days  will  not 
qualify for this benefit.  Authorization to pay Extended Disability Leave benefits will be made by 
the Benefits office.  The University pays the cost of the benefit.  No application is necessary for 
enrollment.    Benefit  becomes  effective  upon  completion  of  sixty  (60)  continuous  full-time 
equivalent service months.  The benefit terminates on the last day of employment.  Conversion of 
coverage is not possible. 

 

 

74 

ARTICLE 38ARTICLE 38 

 

EXPANDED LIFE PLANEXPANDED LIFE PLAN 

 
 
-278  The University provides an Expanded Life Plan for regular full-time staff.  The benefit is 
payable in the event of death.  The benefit is an amount of coverage equal to the employee's basic 
annual  salary.    The  maximum  benefit  is  $50,000.    The  University  pays  the  entire  cost  of  the 
coverage and no application is necessary.   Coverage is automatic and effective the first day of 
employment. 

 

 

75 

ARTICLE 39ARTICLE 39 

 

LONG TERM DISABILITY PLANLONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN 

 
 
-279  The  University  provides  income  protection  through  the  Long  Term  Disability  Plan  for 
regular full-time staff. 
 
-280  The benefit is payable to employees who become totally disabled as defined in the LTD 
Master  Contract  and  are  unable  to  work  due  to  sickness  or  bodily  injury.    In  addition,  the 
University makes the regular contribution for health plan coverage and pays the complete cost for 
dental and the Employee-Paid Life Plan. 
 
-281  The  University  pays  the  entire  cost  of  the  LTD  benefit.    Coverage  is  automatic  and 
becomes effective the first day of the month following or coinciding with completion of twelve 
(12)  continuous  full-time  equivalent  service  months.    Long-Term  Disability  coverage  will 
terminate on the employee's last day of active employment. 

 

 

76 

ARTICLE 40ARTICLE 40 

 

TRAVEL ACCIDENT PROGRAMTRAVEL ACCIDENT PROGRAM 

 
 
-282  The University provides a life Travel Accident Program for full- and part-time staff.  The 
benefit is payable in the event of accidental death, dismemberment or loss of sight while traveling 
on or off-campus on University business. 
 
-283  The  maximum  benefit  is  $50,000.    The  University  pays  the  entire  cost  of  the  benefit.  
Coverage is automatic upon employment and will terminate on the employee's last day of active 
employment.  No conversion is possible. 

 

 

77 

ARTICLE 41ARTICLE 41 

 

 

EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCEEDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE 

 
 
-284  The  University  provides  assistance  to  enhance  an  employee's  educational  and  career 
development needs and goals for regular full-time and part-time staff. 
 
-285  Tuition from an accredited educational institution will be reimbursed for up to fourteen 
(14) credits per MSU academic year upon successful completion of the course(s).  A grade of 2.0 
or better (or "cr" - credit) is required for a credit course. 
 
-286  Reimbursement  for  tuition  at  other  institutions  shall  be  no  greater  than  the  prevailing 
MSU resident lifelong education rates. 
 
-287 
If the employee is covered by benefits such as scholarship or fellowship aid, government 
aid, GI benefits, or similar assistance, reimbursement will be made only for that portion of the 
tuition which exceeds the amount of those benefits. 
 
Release Time 
 
-288   Release time may be granted for up to five (5) hours per week. 
 
Eligibility 
 
-289  The benefit becomes effective if the first day of class commences after the employee has 
completed twelve (12) continuous full-time equivalent service months.  The employee must have 
permission of his/her supervisor and/or department/unit administrator. 
 
-290  The employee must be admitted to the educational institution where the course work will 
be taken and must be employed full-time, part-time or on a flexible appointment when course 
work is completed to be eligible for reimbursement.  Employees who are laid off after a course(s) 
has begun will be eligible for reimbursement upon its completion. 
 
-291  To  receive  waiver/reimbursement  for  MSU  courses,  the  employee  shall  submit  the 
completed  educational  assistance  form  with  departmental  approval  to  Human  Resources 
Development (HRD) thirty (30) days prior to the start of class.  To receive reimbursement for 
non-MSU  courses,  the  employee  shall  submit  the  completed  educational  assistance  form  with 
departmental approval to HRD thirty (30) days prior to the start of class and send evidence that 
he/she  has  successfully  completed  the  course  within  fifteen  (15)  days  of  the  receipt  of  such 
evidence. 
 
-292  Reimbursement for the course(s) will be the MSU per credit tuition rate (not to exceed 
fourteen (14) per academic year), plus the MSU matriculation fees where applicable.  Course and 
other fees are the responsibility of the employee. 
 

78 

 
Educational Assistance for Employees on Layoff 
 
-293    Employees  on  layoff,  as  defined  in  Article  16,  Reduction  in  Force,  shall  be  provided 
consideration for training programs offered through Human Resources Development on a “space 
available” basis without cost to the employee.  The determination of “space available” shall be in 
the  sole  discretion  of  the  Employer.    The  Foundations  of  Effective  Leadership  series,  the 
Planning  and  Organizing  for  PALM  Users  programs,  and  other  programs  determined  by  the 
Employer to require high cost materials to be provided to participants shall be exempt from this 
provision. 
 
-294  Tuition Waiver 
 

Bargaining unit members who are eligible for educational assistance shall be eligible for a 
tuition  waiver  program.    This  tuition  waiver  program  will  be  applicable  only  to  those  MSU 
courses enrolled in through the University's standard registration procedure.  As a condition of 
tuition  waiver,  an  employee  must  sign  an  agreement  authorizing  payroll  deduction  for  the 
amount  of  tuition  waived  to  be  used  in  the  event  she/he  does  not  successfully  complete  the 
course(s). 
 
-295  Employees interested in utilizing the tuition waiver program must submit their educational 
assistance application complete with departmental approval to HRD thirty (30) days prior to the 
semester billing date set by the Fees and Scholarship Office.  The application must be marked 
with  a  request  for  tuition  waiver.    Applications  for  Educational  Assistance  received  after  this 
deadline  may  result  in  late  fees  being  assessed  by  Enrollment  Services  according  to  MSU 
registration policies.  Payment of late fees is the responsibility of the employee. 
 
-296 
If  the  above  timelines  are  met  and  the  educational  assistance  application  is  approved, 
HRD  will  forward  a  list  of  employees  eligible  for  tuition  waiver  to  the  Fees  and  Scholarship 
Office and to the Association. 
 
-297  Employees will be responsible for all charges in excess of the Matriculation Fee and in 
excess of up to fourteen (14) credit hours over the academic year. HRD will supply the Fees and 
Scholarships Office with the total credits available for tuition waiver for each eligible employee. 
In the event the approved course(s) is/are unavailable at the time of registration, other appropriate 
course(s)  may  be  substituted  and  the  application  amended  subject  to  the  approval  of  the 
department administrator or designee and HRD. 
 
-298  Employees who have had their tuition waived will authorize HRD to verify completion of 
approved courses with Enrollment Services upon application for waiver.  In cases where tuition 
waivers  are  withdrawn  (e.g.,  terminated  employee,  non-approved  course,  unsuccessful 
completion), the University will attempt to payroll deduct the waived tuition.  If the University is 
unable to make collection through payroll deduction, the Association agrees to be responsible for 
the outstanding debt(s). 
 
 

 

79 

 

 

 

80 

If non-credit courses only are being taken during an academic year, reimbursement will 

Non-Credit Courses 
 
-299  Employees  may  apply  for  reimbursement  and  release  time  for  job-related  non-credit 
courses which are offered through the University Outreach (e.g., lifelong education, continuing 
education and evening college), MSU computing and technology training programs,  Davenport 
College, Lansing Community College, and high school adult education programs or other HRD 
approved educational/training programs. 
 
-300 
not exceed eight hundred ($800.00) dollars. 
 
-301 
If  non-credit  courses  are  being  taken  during  the  same  academic  year  as  a  course  per 
paragraph  289  above,  the  total  reimbursement  will  not  exceed  the  MSU  rate  per  credit  for 
fourteen (14) credit hours. 
 
-302  Employees  must  document  their  successful  completion  of  non-credit  courses  by 
submitting either (1) a certificate from the course signed by the instructor, or (2) a form provided 
by HRD signed by the instructor. 

 

 

81 

ARTICLE 42ARTICLE 42 

 

 

COURSE FEE COURTESY PROGRAMCOURSE FEE COURTESY PROGRAM 

 
 
-303 
It is understood by both parties to this agreement the Course Fee Courtesy Policy herein 
described shall be identical in all respects, except for the time period for eligibility as described in 
paragraph 305 below, to the Course Fee Courtesy Policy in effect for MSU faculty as approved 
by the MSU Board of Trustees. 
 
-304  Any changes or improvements to the faculty program shall be paralleled at the same time 
in the Administrative Professional program. 
 
-305  Dependent  children,  spouses  and  qualified  same-sex  domestic  partners  of  regular  full-
time employees who have been continuously employed by MSU for a period of sixty (60) full-
time equivalent service  months or more and who are employed prior to the second week of a 
semester or summer session will be entitled to a course fee courtesy.  The course fee courtesy 
consists of the credit of one-half of the applicable resident undergraduate course fees. 
 
-306  Dependent children shall be defined as (a) all legally dependent children of eligible staff; 
and (b) such children who have eligible staff as their legal guardians. 
 
-307  Spouse shall be defined as the legally recognized spouse of a staff member. 
 
-308  Course fees shall be defined as the amount associated with credit hour enrollment and 
shall not include the registration fee or such fees, taxes and charges as may be collected for third 
parties. 
 
-309  The course fee courtesy will be granted through the semester in which the 120th credit is 
attempted,  provided  the  dependent  child,  spouse  or  qualified  same-sex  domestic  partner  is 
registered as a student in good academic standing at Michigan State University in a curriculum 
leading to the first baccalaureate degree or to a certificate in the Agricultural Technology program. 
 For  undergraduate  students  with  transferable  credits  and  Michigan  State  University  credits 
attempted equals 120.  The course fee courtesy is available only to students enrolled through the 
on-campus registration process. 
 
-310  The course fee courtesy for dependent children, spouse and qualified same-sex domestic 
partner  will  be  discounted  at  the  conclusion  of  the  semester  or  summer  session  at  which  the 
employment  of  the  eligible  staff  member  is  terminated.    If  the  dependent  child,  spouse  or 
qualified  same-sex  domestic  partner  is  enrolled  at  the  time  of  the  eligible  staff  member's 
retirement  in  accordance  with  Michigan  State  University  retirement  policy,  commencement  of 
University long-term disability, or death, the course fee courtesy will continue in accordance with 
the provision contained in paragraph 302 above. 
 
 
 

82 

 
-311 
If the dependent child, spouse or qualified same-sex domestic partner drops courses or 
withdraws from school during the refund period, any refund applicable to the course fee courtesy 
will revert to the University. 
 
-312  Dependent children, spouse and qualified same-sex domestic partner of eligible staff on 
approved leave of absence will be eligible for the course fee courtesy. 
 
-313  This program also covers the surviving dependent children, spouse and qualified same-
sex domestic partner of eligible staff and retirees. 
 
-314  Application may be made for the full academic year, beginning with Fall Semester. 
 
-315  Student eligibility is based on the following criteria: 
 

Student applicants must be admitted or readmitted to Michigan State University in 
accordance with the normal requirements for admission or readmission. 

The  student  must  be  enrolled  in  Agricultural  Technology  or  a  degree-granting 
program  leading  to  a  first  baccalaureate  degree  (No  Preference  students  are 
eligible). 

Credits attempted must total 120 or less.  Credits attempted will be calculated by 
adding to the student's total credits (which includes transfer credits, P grades and 
CR grades) the total of credits for repeated courses and/or for courses in which the 
student received Deferred, Incomplete, N, No Credit and 0.0. 

1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

-316  As  a  scholarship  award  the  Course  Fee  Courtesy  will  be  considered  in  determining 
eligibility for additional financial assistance for those students who also apply for financial aid at 
Michigan State University.  All eligible student applicants will receive the Course Fee Courtesy.  
However, if other forms of financial aid have been awarded to attend Michigan State University, 
the aid will be adjusted to reflect the Course Fee Courtesy.  Depending on the types of awarded 
aid  as  well  as  when  the  Office  of  Financial  Aids  is  informed  of  eligibility  for  the  Course  Fee 
Courtesy, the adjustment may be made to awarded grants, and loan or work eligibility according 
to the guidelines of the Office of Financial Aids, and the student shall be so informed. 
 
-317  Eligibility  for  other  tuition-specific  awards  (such  as  the  Michigan  Competitive 
Scholarship, Kodak Scholarship or Engineering Cooperative Award) will reduce the Course Fee 
Courtesy award so that the awards in combination will not exceed assessed tuition. 
 
-318  Course fees covered through the Course Fee Courtesy Program will be limited to courses 
published in the Schedule of Courses and its supplements. 
 
-319  Request for application forms or questions regarding the Course Fee Courtesy Program 
should be directed to the Human Resources Benefits - 353-4434. 
 

83 

 

ARTICLE 43ARTICLE 43 

 

RETIREMENT PLANRETIREMENT PLAN 

 
 
-320  The University provides a contributory base retirement plan for regular staff working half 
time or more.  The benefit provides income during retirement and benefit payments in the event 
of death before retirement.  Contributions from the employee and the University are paid into an 
individual contract between the employee and the company or eligible vendor. 
 
-321  Employee contributions are 5% and University contributions are 10% of the employee's 
base salary or wage. 
 
-322  The University's contribution is made on a tax-deferred basis, i.e., the employee does not 
report  the  University  contribution  as  earned  income  when  filing  income  tax  returns  for  the 
calendar year.  After retirement, the employee does pay taxes on the amounts received. 
 
-323  An additional portion of the employee's salary may be contributed by the employee to a 
supplemental retirement plan vendor approved by the University, on a tax-deferred basis, through 
payroll deduction, subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations. 
 
-324  Administrative Professional employees may optionally elect immediate participation upon 
employment, or may delay participation for up to twenty four (24) FTE service months from their 
appointment  date  or  to  the  35th  birthday,  whichever  is  later,  at  which  time  participation  is 
required.  Once  required  participation  begins,  it  is  not  possible  to  withdraw  from  the  Base 
Retirement Plan while employed at the University. 

 

 

84 

 

 

 

ARTICLE 44ARTICLE 44 

 

HEALTH CARE COVERAGEHEALTH CARE COVERAGE 

 
 
-325  Health care programs effective after June 30, 1998, effective on July 1, 1998 
 
 
 

  1.  Prescription Drug 

 

 

 

 

 A.  Prescription drug benefits shall, effective July 1, 1998, be provided to employees 
represented by the Union, regardless of the University health plan in which they 
are  enrolled,  under  a  program  administered  by  Caremark  or  other 
administrator(s) as may be agreed to. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  B.    The  prescription  drug  program  implemented  pursuant  to  the  agreement  shall 

provide the following co-pay options: 

 

 

  

  

  (i.)  $3.00 for generic and dispensed as written prescriptions and $8.00 for brand 

prescriptions filled at MSU pharmacies. 

  (ii.)  $6.00  for  generic  and  dispensed  as  written  prescriptions  and  $16.00  for 
brand  prescriptions  for  a  90-day  supply  of  maintenance  drugs  through 
MSU pharmacies. 

 

 

 

 

  

  (iii.)  $5.00  for  generic  and  dispensed  as  written  prescriptions  and  $10.00  for 
brand  prescriptions  filled  at  retail  pharmacies  in  the  administrator’s 
network. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  (iv.) $10.00  for  generic  and  dispensed  as  written  prescriptions  and  $20.00  for 

brand prescriptions filled by the administrator’s mail order service. 

 C.   The  premiums  for  the  prescription  drug  program  shall  be  borne  fully  by  the 
University for full-time employees and proportionately for part-time employees. 

2. 

  Base and Optional Programs 

A. 

  Effective on July 1, 1998, and for the plan year ending on June 30, 1999,the 
University  shall  offer 
the  Blue  Cross/Blue  Shield  Community  Blue  
(“BCBS/PPO”) program, which shall be the base health care plan for employees 
represented by the Union, and the Physicians Health Care Plan  (“PHP”) which 
shall be an optional plan.  The premium cost of the BCBS/PPO program shall be 
borne  fully  by  the  University  for  full-time employees and proportionately for 
part-time  employees  (in  accordance  with 
the  conditions  for  part-time  
employees set forth below).  During the 1998-1999 plan year, employees may 
select  to  enroll  in  PHP  and  will  receive  the  applicable  single,  two-person  or 

85 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

family university base plan contribution toward the cost, with the difference, if 
any, payable by the employee through payroll deduction. 

 B.  Effective on July 1, 1999, and for the 1999-2000, 2000-2001, and 2001-2002 plan 
years, the BCBS/PPO and PHP/HMO shall continue to be offered to employees.  
The  University’s  contribution  toward  the  cost  of  either  program  shall  be  the 
amount of the program having the lower rates in each plan year.  This will be 
known as the base plan.  In each of the aforementioned plan years, the cost of the 
base  plan  shall  be  borne  fully  by  the  University  for  full-time  employees  and 
proportionately  for  part-time employees (in accordance with the conditions for 
part-time employees set forth below).  Employees electing to enroll under a plan 
other than the base plan will receive the applicable University single, two-person 
or  family  base  plan  contribution  toward  the  optional  plan  cost,  with  the 
difference, if any, payable by the employee through payroll deduction. 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  C.  Health Plan Contribution for Part-time Staff 

 

  

  (i.)    Effective  7/1/98,  part-time  staff  will  receive  a  proportional  University 
monthly contribution for health insurance based on the single, two-person 
or family premium for Community Blue, and the employee will pay the 
remaining  premium  through  payroll  deduction.  As  of  7/1/99,  the 
University’s proportional contribution will be based on the premium for 
the lowest cost health plan. 

(ii.) 

   Employees who are employed by the University by 6/30/98, and who 
are  or  become  part-time,  will  be  eligible  to  apply  for  a  “hardship” 
University  part-time  contribution.    In  these  cases,  the  University’s 
proportional  contribution  will  be  based  on  the  family  premium  of 
Community Blue from 7/1/98  – 6/30/99, and the lowest cost plan from 
7/1/99 and thereafter.  Employees employed after 7/1/98 are not eligible 
for a hardship University part-time contribution. 

 

 

 

  

  (iii.)   To qualify and apply for the hardship University part-time contribution, 
part-time  employees  are  to  submit  justification  satisfactory  to  the 
Benefits  Office.    An  employee  who  falsifies  any  information  will  be 
responsible  for  making  the  University  whole  for  its  health  care 
expenditures on his/her behalf. 

 

  3.    Coverage for Married Couples and Same-Sex Domestic Partners where both are 

Employed by the University. 

86 

 

 

 

   A.    Effective  on  July  1,  1998,  a  married  couple  or  same-sex domestic partners 
(with  both  being  employed  by  the  University)  must  elect  from  one  of  the 
following options: 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

(i).   Each employee may elect single person coverage under either the 
base  or  optional  health  plan.    In  the  case  of  a  married  couple  or 
same-sex  domestic  partners  (with  both  being  employed  by  the 
University)  where  there  are  dependents,  dependents  may  be 
covered under only one MSU plan. 

(ii.)  One  employee  may  elect  two-person or family coverage and the 
other  employee  may  waive  University  coverage  and  receive  the 
$600.00 waiver in accordance with existing provisions. 

 
The foregoing options remain subject to otherwise applicable conditions and limitations  
 regarding  eligibility and proportional benefits. 
 
-326  The University reserves the right to change health plan administrators, other than health 
maintenance  organizations,  to  provide  health  care  coverage  for  employees  in  the  unit.    Other 
managed care options may be added by the Employer in addition to the traditional and HMO 
options currently offered. However, benefit levels now in effect shall not be reduced but may be 
improved. 
 
-327  A.        Employees  should  enroll  within  60  days  of  employment  or  appointment  to  an 
eligible  status  or  during  annual  open  enrollment.    Enrollment  forms  are  available  through  the 
Benefits office. 
 

B. Employees eligible for MSU health care coverage are eligible to waive the MSU health 
care coverage each year during the annual health care plan open enrollment to be effective July 1 
through June 30.  Employees waiving coverage receive up to a $600.00 payment made in the 
month  of  July  of  the  next  plan  year.    Reenrollment into the MSU health plan will be allowed 
during the year if proof of involuntary loss of other health care coverage is provided within thirty-
one (31) days of loss of coverage.  The individual would no longer be eligible for the full lump-
sum payment, but would be paid for the waived coverage on a pro-rata basis as provided for on 
the MSU health care waiver form. 
 
 

 

 

 

87 

 

SAFETYSAFETY 

ARTICLE 45ARTICLE 45 

 
 
-328  The  University  and  the  Association  shall  cooperate  for  the  purposes  of  eliminating 
accidents and health hazards.  The University shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and 
health of its employees during their hours of employment.  The University, the Association and 
the employees recognize their obligations and/or rights under existing federal and state laws with 
respect to safety and health matters. 
 

 

 

88 

ARTICLE 46ARTICLE 46 

  

SCOPE OF AGREEMENTSCOPE OF AGREEMENT 

 
 
-329  The provisions contained herein constitute the entire Agreement between the parties. 
 
 

 

 

89 

ARTICLE 47ARTICLE 47 

 

AGREEMENTAGREEMENT 

 
 
-330  THIS  AGREEMENT  entered  into  this  thirtieth  day  of  November,  2000,  between  the 
Board of Trustees of Michigan State University (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer") and 
the Michigan State University Administrative Professional Association, MEA/NEA (hereinafter 
referred to as the "APA" or "the Association"). 
 
-331  Whenever  the  words  "University"  or  "the  Association"  appear  in  this  Agreement,  they 
shall mean Michigan State University. 
 
-332  Whenever the words "APA" or "the Association" appear in this Agreement, it shall mean 
the Michigan State University Administrative Professional Association, MEA/NEA. 
 
-333  The  Association  will  furnish  the  Office  of  Employee  Relations  with  the  names  of  its 
Executive  Board  members  and  such  changes  as  may  occur  from  time  to  time  with  such 
personnel. The Employer will in return, keep the APA advised as to its representatives. 
 
-334  No provision of this Agreement or any supplement thereto shall be waived or modified in 
any way unless such waiver or modification is agreed to in writing between the Employer and the 
APA. 
 
-335  Throughout this Agreement, any reference made to gender shall include male and female 
employees even if indicated in the masculine form, unless specifically relating to either gender 
and not the other. 
 
-336  For the purpose of this Agreement, it is expressly understood and agreed by the parties 
hereto that introductory titles or headings preceding the Articles set forth herein shall not be held 
to in any way affect the substance, meaning or intent of any of the terms or provisions of said 
Article(s) contained in this Agreement. 
 
-337 
If  any  provision  of  this  Agreement,  or  any  supplement  thereto,  is  found  invalid  by 
operation of law or by any board of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement 
of  any  provision  should  permanently  be  restrained  by  any  such  court,  the  remainder  of  this 
Agreement, and any supplements thereto, shall remain in full force and effect, and the Employer 
and the Association, at the request of either party, shall enter into negotiations for the purpose of 
arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such provision or supplement. 
 
TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION 
 
-338  This  Agreement  shall  continue  in  full  force  and  effect  until  11:59  p.m.,  September  30, 
2003. 
 
 

 

90 

 
 
-339 
If either party desires to terminate this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to the 
termination  date,  give  written  notice  of  termination.    If  neither  party  shall  give  notice  of 
termination  of  this  Agreement  as  provided  in  this  paragraph  or  notice  of  amendment,  as 
hereinafter provided, or if each party giving notice of termination withdraws the same prior to the 
termination date, this Agreement shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter subject to 
notice  of  termination  by  the  other  party  on  sixty  (60)  days  written  notice  prior  to  the  current 
year's termination date. 
 
If either party desires to modify or change this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to 
-340 
the termination date or any subsequent termination date, give written notice of amendment, in 
which event the notice of amendment shall set forth the nature of the amendment or amendments 
desired.    If  notice  of  amendment  of  this  Agreement  has  been  given  in  accordance  with  this 
paragraph, this Agreement may be terminated by either party on ten (10) days written notice of 
termination but not before the effective termination date of this Agreement.  Any agreements that 
may  be  agreed  upon  shall  become  and  be  a  part  of  this  Agreement  without  modifying  or 
changing any of the other terms of this Agreement. 
 
-341  Notice of Termination and Modification.  Notice shall be in writing and shall be sufficient 
if sent by certified mail, addressed to the Association and if to the Employer, addressed to the 
Director of Employee Relations or to any such address as the Association or the Employer may 
make available to each other. 
 
EFFECTIVE DATE 
 
-342  This Agreement shall become effective October 1,2000.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the 
parties have set their hands this 30th day of November 2000. 
 
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROFESSIONAL 
ASSOCIATION 
 
 
__________________________________  
Tom Ferris, Uniserv Director   
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________________________________  
Leo Sell, APA Chairperson 
 

_______________________________ 
Dr. Fred Poston, Vice President 
Finance, Operations and Treasurer 

MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 

_______________________________ 
C. Keith Groty, Asistant VP   
Office of Human Resources 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Bargaining Team: 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_______________________________ 

91 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Samuel A. Baker, Director, 
Employee Relations 

Gary Glazier, Associate Manager 
Vice Provost/Dean ANR 
 
 
________________________________ 
Kristine Hynes, Director 
Human Resources Services 
 
 
________________________________ 
Steven Meuche, Director, 
Broadcasting Services 

________________________________ 
Dr. Willie M. Reed, Director 
Animal Health Diagnostic Laboratory 

________________________________ 
Susan Waltersdorf, Associate Controller 
Controller 

Cathy Caswell  
Jaime Galindo  
Cynthia Hill 
Brigid King Jansen 
Leslie Johnson 
 
Doug Owen 
Alex Schram 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

________________________________ 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

92 

APPENDIX IAPPENDIX I 

On and after October 1, 2000 the following Classifications are represented by the 

Level      
 
14 
12 
11 
13 
10 
11 
13 
14 
15 
14 
12 
13 
14 
10 
12 
14 
15 
12 
10 
12 
13 
14 
10 
12 
13 
13 
11 
13 
14 
11 
12 
10 
16 
10 
11 
13 
10 

 
 

 

Michigan State University Administrative Professional Association. 
 
Classification 
 
ACADEMIC ORIENTATION PROGRAM COORDINATOR 
ACADEMIC TECHNOLOGY COORDINATOR 
ACCOUNTANT I 
ACCOUNTANT II 
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT I 
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT II 
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT III 
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSOCIATE I 
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSOCIATE II 
ADMISSIONS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
ADMISSIONS COUNSELOR 
ADMISSIONS SENIOR COUNSELOR 
ALUMNI PROGRAMS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
ARCHITECT LANDSCAPE I 
ARCHITECT LANDSCAPE II 
ARCHITECT LANDSCAPE III 
ARCHITECT LANDSCAPE/CONSTRUCTION 
ATHLETIC ADMINISTRATIVE COORDINATOR 
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT COORDINATOR 
ATHLETIC TRAINER I 
ATHLETIC TRAINER II 
ATHLETIC TRAINER III 
ATHLETIC TRAINER/OLIN HEALTH CENTER 
AUDITOR I 
AUDITOR II 
AUDITOR/INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
AUTOMATED OFFICE SYSTEMS ASSISTANT 
AUTOMATED OFFICE SYSTEMS COORDINATOR 
BIOLOGICAL SAFETY OFFICER 
BOTANICAL TECHNOLOGIST II 
BUDGET RECORDS COORDINATOR 
BUYER 
CAO AST. DIRECTOR/UNIVERSITY DATA RESOURCES ADMINSTR. 
CARDIOVASCULAR TECHNOLOGIST I 
CAREER INFORMATION COORDINATOR 
CAREER SERVICES COORDINATOR 
CHEMICAL SPECTROSCOPIST 
 

93 

Classification 
CHILD & FAMILY CARE RESOURCES COORD 
CODE COMPLIANCE INSPECTOR 
COLLEGE ALUMNI COORDINATOR 
COMMUNITY HEALTH ASSOCIATE 
COMPUTER ANIMATOR 
COMPUTER NETWORK COORDINATOR 
CONSORTIUM COORDINATOR I 
CONSORTIUM COORDINATOR II 
CONTROLLER SENIOR ASSISTANT MANAGER/ANALYST 
COUNSELOR 
CULINARY COORDINATOR/COWLES HOUSE 
CURATOR ASSISTANT 
CURATOR OF HISTORY 
CURRICULUM ASSISTANT II 
CYTOGENETIC LABORATORY TECHNOLOGIST II 
DATA RESOURCE ANALYST 
DATABASE ANALYST I 
DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANT 
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER I 
DEVELOPMENT OFFICER II 
EDITOR II 
EDITOR III 
EDITOR/GRAPHIC DESIGNER 
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM COORDINATOR II 
ELECTRON MICROSCOPIST I 
ELECTRON MICROSCOPIST II 
ELECTRON MICROSCOPIST III 
ENGINEER/ARCHITECT I 
ENGINEER/ARCHITECT II 
ENGINEER/ARCHITECT III 
ENGINEER/ARCHITECT IV 
ENGINEERING/PHYSICIST ACCELERATOR I 
ENGINEERING/PHYSICIST ACCELERATOR II 
ENGINEERING/PHYSICIST ACCELERATOR III 
ENROLLMENT SERVICES COORDINATOR 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE OFFICER 
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH/SAFETY INSPECTOR 
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY II 
EXECUTIVE STAFF ASSISTANT 
FACILITIES ALTERATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS COORDINATOR 
FARM ASSISTANT MANAGER 
FARM MANAGER I 
FARM MANAGER II 
FINANCIAL AID ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
 

94 

 

Level 
12 
12 
12 
12 
12 
11 
13 
14 
13 
12 
11 
11 
12 
12 
11 
13 
12 
10 
12 
14 
11 
13 
12 
12 
10 
11 
13 
11 
12 
14 
15 
10 
12 
14 
12 
14 
12 
10 
11 
13 
12 
13 
14 
15 

Classification 
FINANCIAL AID OFFICER I 
FINANCIAL AID OFFICER II 
FINANCIAL AID OFFICER III 
FINANCIAL ANALYST I 
FINANCIAL ANALYST II 
FIRE & OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY INSPECTOR 
FOOD MANAGEMENT DATABASE COORDINATOR 
FOOD SERVICES RESEARCH ASSISTANT 
FOREIGN STUDENT ADVISOR 
GENETICS COUNSELOR 
GEOLOGICAL PREPARATOR 
GOLF COURSE ASSISTANT MANAGER 
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS ASSISTANT 
GRAPHIC ARTIST I 
GRAPHIC ARTIST II 
GRAPHIC ARTIST III 
GREENHOUSE COORDINATOR 
GREENHOUSE MANAGER I 
GREENHOUSE MANAGER II 
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROFESSIONAL 
HEALTH CARE QUALITY PROJECT COORDINATOR 
HEALTH PHYSICIST I 
HEALTH PHYSICIST II 
HORTICULTURIST 
HUMAN RESOURCE ANALYST 
HUMAN RESOURCES PROFESSIONAL 
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST I 
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST II 
INFORMATION OFFICER I 
INFORMATION OFFICER II 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIST I 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIST II 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIST III 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIST IV 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROFESSIONAL 
INFORMATIONAL AND STATISTICAL ANALYST 
INSTRUCTIONAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES TECHNOLOGIST I 
INSTRUCTIONAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES TECHNOLOGIST II 
INSTRUCTIONAL MULTIMEDIA PRODUCER/DIRECTOR 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OFFICER 
INTERIOR DESIGNER I 
INTRAMURAL SPORTS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
INTRAMURAL SPORTS COORDINATOR 
KELLOGG CENTER CATERING & SALES COORDINATOR 
 

95 

 

Level 
10 
12 
13 
11 
13 
13 
11 
11 
12 
13 
11 
10 
14 
  9 
11 
12 
10 
11 
12 
12 
13 
12 
13 
12 
12 
11 
12 
13 
12 
14 
12 
13 
14 
15 
11 
11 
10 
12 
12 
13 
11 
14 
11 
12 

Classification 
LABORATORY & CHEMICAL RECLAMATION COORDINATOR 
LAND MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
LAND MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR 
LANGUAGE LEARNING CENTER TECHNOLOGY COORDINATOR 
LIBRARY ASSISTANT IV 
LIBRARY ASSISTANT V 
MANAGEMENT ANALYST 
MARKETING AND SALES ASSISTANT 
MARKETING AND SALES COORDINATOR 
MARKETING AND SALES MANAGER 
MASTER SCIENTIFIC GLASSBLOWER 
MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST I 
MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST II 
MENU DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR 
MICROCOMPUTER HARDWARE/SOFTWARE COORDINATOR 
MSU HEALTH TEAM COMPLIANCE OFFICER 
MSU PRESS PRODUCTION MANAGER 
MULTICULTURAL CENTER COORDINATOR 
MULTICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR 
NIGHT MANAGER 
NUTRITIONIST 
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST I 
OPERATIONS AND SAFETY COORDINATOR 
OPERATIONS COORDINATOR 
OUTREACH COMMUNICATIONS PUBLICATIONS MANAGER 
PARKING COORDINATOR 
PERSONNEL ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR 
PESTICIDE COORDINATOR 
PHARMACIST I 
PHYSICAL THERAPIST I 
PHYSICIAN'S ASSISTANT 
PLANETARIUM PROGRAM ASSISTANT 
PLANETARIUM PROGRAM COORDINATOR 
PLANNER/INSPECTOR/ANALYST I 
PLANNER/INSPECTOR/ANALYST II 
PLANNER/INSPECTOR/ANALYST III 
PLANNER/INSPECTOR/ANALYST HOUSING AND FOOD SERVICES 
PRESERVATION AND RESEARCH EDUCATION MANAGER 
PRESIDENTIAL EVENTS COORDINATOR 
PRINTING TECHNOLOGY COORDINATOR 
PROCUREMENT COORDINATOR/CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR I 
PROCUREMENT COORDINATOR/CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR II 
PRODUCER/DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY 
PRODUCER/HOST RADIO I 
 

96 

 

Level 
12 
15 
16 
12 
11 
13 
14 
10 
12 
14 
12 
10 
11 
12 
11 
14 
11 
12 
14 
11 
12 
12 
11 
10 
14 
10 
12 
10 
13 
12 
13 
10 
13 
11 
13 
14 
13 
12 
12 
13 
11 
13 
13 
12 

Classification 
PRODUCER/HOST RADIO II 
PRODUCER/HOST TALKING BOOK 
PRODUCTION AND ADVERTISING ASSISTANT 
PROGRAMMER ANALYST 
PROJECT/EVENT COORDINATOR 
PSYCHOLOGIST I 
PUBLIC SAFETY INSPECTOR 
PUBLICATIONS DESIGN COORDINATOR 
PURCHASING AGENT 
PURCHASING AGENT/MINORITY PROCUREMENT COORDINATOR 
QUALITY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR 
RECORDING PRODUCTION TECHNICIAN II 
RECYCLING/SURPLUS ASSISTANT 
RESEARCH ASSISTANT I 
RESEARCH ASSISTANT II 
RESEARCH ASSISTANT III 
RESEARCH BIOCONTAINMENT FACILITY ENGINEER 
RESEARCH QUALITY ASSURANCE OFFICER 
RESEARCH/INSTRUCTIONAL EQUIPMENT TECHNOLOGIST I 
RESEARCH/INSTRUCTIONAL EQUIPMENT TECHNOLOGIST II 
SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT FACILITY COORDINATOR 
SEXUAL ASSAULT SAFETY PROGRAM COORDINATOR 
SOCIAL WORKER 
SOFTWARE SYSTEMS ENGINEER 
SPACE MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR 
SPORTS FACILITY PROFESSIONAL 
SPORTS OPERATIONS ASSISTANT 
STAFF DENTIST 
STAFF PHYSICIAN 
STUDENT ALUMNI COORDINATOR 
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT COORDINATOR 
STUDENT LIFE ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
STUDENT SERVICES ASSISTANT I 
STUDENT SERVICES ASSISTANT II 
STUDENT SERVICES COORDINATOR 
STUDENT-ATHLETE COORDINATOR 
STUDY ABROAD PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR 
SYSTEMS ANALYST I 
SYSTEMS ANALYST II 
SYSTEMS ANALYST III 
SYSTEMS DESIGNER 
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER I 
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER II 
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER III 
 

97 

 

Level 
13 
12 
11 
11 
11 
14 
15 
13 
12 
12 
13 
12 
10 
11 
12 
13 
13 
13 
10 
12 
13 
12 
12 
14 
13 
10 
11 
16 
16 
12 
10 
14 
10 
12 
14 
12 
13 
12 
13 
14 
13 
11 
13 
14 

Classification 
TECHNICAL WRITER 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS MANAGER 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS VOLUNTEER PROGRAM COORDINATOR 
TELEMARKETING SYSTEMS COORDINATOR 
TELEVISION ASSISTANT PROGRAM MANAGER 
TELEVISION PRODUCER/DIRECTOR I 
TELEVISION PRODUCER/DIRECTOR II 
TENNIS FACILITY MANAGER 
TRAINING PROGRAM DEVELOPER II 
TRAINING PROGRAM DEVELOPER III 
UNIT HUMAN RESOURCES COORDINATOR 
UNIT INFORMATION SYSTEMS MANAGER 
UNIVERSITY ARTIST 
UNIVERSITY DATA RESOURCE ASSISTANT 
UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT RESEARCHER 
UNIVERSITY HOUSING CABLE CHANNEL MANAGER 
UNIVERSITY HOUSING CONFERENCE COORDINATOR 
UNIVERSITY HOUSING CULINARY COORDINATOR 
UNIVERSITY MANAGEMENT ANALYST  
UNIVERSITY PRESS EDITOR 
VETERINARIAN/CLINICAL 
VETERINARY LABORATORY TECHNOLOGIST II 
VIDEOTAPE PRODUCER/DIRECTOR I 
VIDEOTAPE PRODUCER/DIRECTOR II 
VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION COUNSELOR 

Level 
10 
13 
10 
11 
13 
13 
14 
12 
11 
12 
10 
14 
13 
12 
10 
13 
12 
12 
16 
11 
15 
10 
11 
12 
12 

 

 

98 

ALPHABETICAL INDEX 

Page 

Absence Without Pay (10 days or less) ....................................................................... 45 
Absence Without Pay Including Layoff (Exceeding 10 Days)................................... 45-46 
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PROGRAM .......................... 69 
Accrued Vacation Leave Carryover ............................................................................. 47 
AGREEMENT............................................................................................................... 86 
AID TO OTHER LABOR UNIONS ............................................................................  7 
Alphabetical Index......................................................................................................... 95 
Appendix I (Classifications) ......................................................................................... 89-93 
Arbitration...................................................................................................................... 22-23 
Arbitration/Finality of Decisions .................................................................................. 23 
Association Chairperson............................................................................................... 11 
ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP.................................................................................  8 
ASSOCIATION RIGHTS............................................................................................. 11 
Automatic Progression Level........................................................................................ 40-42 
Bargaining Team ........................................................................................................... 12 
BEREAVEMENT DAYS.............................................................................................. 66 
Checkoff.........................................................................................................................  8 
CLASSIFICATION/RECLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS .................................. 28 
Classification (Listing)................................................................................................... 89-93 
COMPENSATION PROGRAMS................................................................................ 40 
Compensatory Time...................................................................................................... 43 
Computation of Back Wages........................................................................................ 20 
COURSE FEE COURTESY PROGRAM ................................................................... 79-80 
Demotion ....................................................................................................................... 26 
DENTAL PLAN............................................................................................................ 70 
Disputes Concerning Compliance................................................................................ 10 
Dues/Revocation Cards................................................................................................. 10 
Dues/Service Fee ...........................................................................................................  8 
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE................................................................................. 58,    76-
78 
Effective Date of the Agreement .................................................................................. 87 
EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLAN .................................................................................. 71 
EMPLOYMENT STATUS............................................................................................ 13 
Executive Board Members............................................................................................ 11 
EXPANDED LIFE PLAN ............................................................................................ 73 
EXTENDED DISABILITY LEAVE ............................................................................ 72 
FILLING VACANT POSITIONS................................................................................ 27 
FLEXIBLE APPOINTMENTS..................................................................................... 56-61 
Flexible Employment Status......................................................................................... 13 

99 

 
Article 
 

34 

47 
4 

5 
6 

31 

15 

17 

42 

35 

41 

36 
7 

38 
37 
14 
27 

 
 
 

 

 
 Article 
 

44 

23 

29 

19 
20 
28 
20 
 2 
 3 
26 

30 
25 

 

 

Page 

Flexible Positions........................................................................................................... 56 
Fringe Benefits/Flex Appointments ............................................................................. 57 
Full-time Equivalent Service Months........................................................................... 14 
Full-time Hours.............................................................................................................. 13 
Full-time/Part-time Status Considerations ................................................................... 52 
General Increase ............................................................................................................ 40 
Grievance Definition and Procedure ............................................................................ 21 
Oral Step......................................................................................................................... 21 
Step 1.............................................................................................................................. 21-22 
Step 2.............................................................................................................................. 22 
Step 3.............................................................................................................................. 22 
Step 4.............................................................................................................................. 22-23 
Time Limits.................................................................................................................... 20 
Grievance Officer........................................................................................................... 11,12,19 
Half-time Hours ............................................................................................................. 14 
HEALTH CARE COVERAGE.................................................................................... 82-83 
Health Care Contributions During Retirement............................................................ 14-15 
Health Care Coverage Waiver....................................................................................... 83 
HOLIDAYS ................................................................................................................... 50 
Holiday Pay.................................................................................................................... 50 
Hours of Employment................................................................................................... 13 
Hours Worked Records................................................................................................. 60 
Interim Evaluations........................................................................................................ 16 
Interviews - Time off ..................................................................................................... 27 
JURY DUTY PAY......................................................................................................... 64 
Layoff Transition Adjustment ...................................................................................... 38 
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY............................................................................ 44 
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY.................................................................... 45 
LONGEVITY PAY........................................................................................................ 62-63 
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN............................................................................. 74 
MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS........................................................................................  5 
MANAGEMENT SECURITY......................................................................................  6 
MATERNITY LEAVE.................................................................................................. 55 
Merit  Salary Increases .................................................................................................. 40 
MILITARY DUTY PAY............................................................................................... 65 
MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE............................................................................ 54 
Military Leave of Absence (Without Pay)................................................................... 54 
Military Leave of Absence/Longevity Pay................................................................... 62 
Minimum Hiring Rates.................................................................................................. 41 
Noncredit Courses......................................................................................................... 78 
Nondiscrimination.........................................................................................................  3 
Notice of Termination and Modification (of Agreement)........................................... 87 

100 

Off-Date Employment Status ....................................................................................... 13 

Page 

 Article 
 
11 

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDERS......................................................................... 24 
Other Employment........................................................................................................ 60 
Oral Step......................................................................................................................... 21 
Overtime......................................................................................................................... 43 
Overview ........................................................................................................................ 67 
Parental Leave................................................................................................................ 46 
Payment Schedule (Longevity Pay)............................................................................. 63 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS............................................................................ 16, 25 
PERSONAL LEAVE DAYS ........................................................................................ 49 
Personnel Folder............................................................................................................ 24 
Probationary Period(s) .................................................................................................. 16, 60 
PROBATIONARY/TRIAL PERIOD........................................................................... 16, 60 
Promotion ...................................................................................................................... 26 
PROMOTION/DEMOTION......................................................................................... 26 
Proportional Benefits..................................................................................................... 14 
PURPOSE AND INTENT.............................................................................................  3 
Recall from Layoff ........................................................................................................ 30 
Recall Rights.................................................................................................................. 18, 30 
RECOGNITION............................................................................................................  4 
REDUCTION IN FORCE............................................................................................. 28 
Regular Employment Status ......................................................................................... 13 
Release Time/Association Officers............................................................................... 11 
Release Time/Educational Assistance.......................................................................... 76  
Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge .......................................................................... 20, 21 
RETIREE/OVER 65 LIFE PROGRAM....................................................................... 68 
RETIREMENT PLAN................................................................................................... 81 
SAFETY......................................................................................................................... 84 
Salary Payments/Flexible Appointees.......................................................................... 60 
Salary Progression Program.......................................................................................... 40, 41 
Salary Schedules............................................................................................................ 41, 42 
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT........................................................................................... 85 
SENIORITY................................................................................................................... 18 
Service Months.............................................................................................................. 14-15 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES.................................................................................... 19 
SICK LEAVE ................................................................................................................ 51 
Sick Leave/Coordination with Other Types of Pay or Benefits.................................. 52 
Sick Leave Payout ......................................................................................................... 52-53 
Special Conferences ...................................................................................................... 5, 23 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS.............................................................................................. 43 
Status of Employment................................................................................................... 13 
Strikes.............................................................................................................................  6 
Table of Contents ..........................................................................................................  i 

101 

12 
22 

8 

13 

 1 
16 

33 
43 
45 

46 
 9 

10 
24 

18 

 

 

Temporary Employment Status.................................................................................... 13 

Page 

Termination and Modifications (of Agreement).......................................................... 87 
Termination for Failure to Comply............................................................................... 9-10 
Termination of Limitation............................................................................................. 10 
Termination of Probationary/Trial Period .................................................................... 17 
TERMS OF AGREEMENT.......................................................................................... 86 
Three-Quarter Time Hours............................................................................................ 13 
TRAVEL ACCIDENT PROGRAM............................................................................. 75 
Trial Period..................................................................................................................... 16-17 
Tuition Waiver ............................................................................................................... 77 
Units ............................................................................................................................... 30-38 
University Contribution to Base Retirement Plan and Social Security ...................... 58 
University Seniority....................................................................................................... 18 
Vacant Positions............................................................................................................ 27 
Vacation Accrual........................................................................................................... 47 
VACATION PAY.......................................................................................................... 47 
Vacation Usage Requirements...................................................................................... 48 
Wage Rates .................................................................................................................... 40 
Workers’ Compensation............................................................................................... 48-52 

 Article 
 

47 

40 

21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

102 

 

