Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

39

Language English

Country United States

State

NM

Union National Federation of Federal Employees

Local Local 2049, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel

Office clerks, general 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency U.S. Army White Sands Missile Range
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear

[unknown]

EndYear

[unknown]

Source

http://www.wsmr.army.mil/nafpersonnel/nafunion.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

 

Voluntary Allotment of Union Dues 

Use of Official Facilities and Services 

Orientation of New Bargaining Unit Employees 

Basic Workweek and Hours of Duty 

Overtime 

Leave and Absence 

Competitive/Non-Competitive-Referrals, Details, Temporary 

Promotions, Limited Tenure, and Emergency Hires 

NAF Union Contract 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

Preamble and Witnesseth 

Purpose 

Definition 

Recognition and Unit Designation 

Provisions of Laws and Regulation 

Management Rights 
Employee Rights 

Union Rights and Representation 

Union-Employer Meetings 

Negotiations 

Grievance Procedures 

Arbitration 

Selection 

Job Descriptions 

Equal Employment Opportunity 

Performance Plans and Appraisal 

Performance Based Actions 

Discipline 
Separation 

Safety and Health 

Employee Assistance Program 

Incentive Awards 

Training 

Labor-Management Relations Training 

Contracting Out 

Business Based Action 
Reemployment Priority 

Smoking Policy 

Pay Policy 
Retirement 

Group Insurance Plan 
Duration of Agreement 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                               Article 1--Preamble 
 
           In accordance with the policy set forth by the Civil 
           Service Reform Act of 1978 and Executive Order 12871 as 
           amended, regarding Federal Labor-Management Relations, the 
           following articles of this basic agreement, together with 

           all supplemental agreements and amendments which may be 
           agreed to at later dates, constitute an agreement by and 
           between the U.S. Army White Sands Missile Range, 
           hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and the National 
           Federation of Federal Employees, Local 2049, hereinafter 
           referred to as the Union. Collectively, the Employer and 
           the Union shall be known as the "Parties". 
 
                                    Witnesseth 
 
           In consideration of the mutual covenant herein set forth, 
           the parties hereto, intending to be bound, hereby agree as 
           follows: 
 
           WHEREAS, the public interest requires high standards of 
           employee performance together with the continual 
           development and implementation of modern and progressive 
           work practices to improve employee performance and 
           efficiency, the Union, as the representative of the 
           employees, agrees to support the Employer in these efforts 
           and promote the development of good will and eliminate 
           waste in all forms; and 
 
           WHEREAS, the well being of the employees and efficient 
           administration of the government are benefited by 
           providing employees an opportunity to participate in the 
           formulation and implementation of personnel policies and 
           practices affecting the conditions of their employment; 
           and 
 
           WHEREAS, the Employer also agrees that supervisors at all 
           levels are to provide positive leadership and set a good 
           example for all bargaining unit employees; and 
 
           WHEREAS, the participation of employees should be improved 
           through the maintenance of constructive and cooperative 
           relationships between labor organizations and management 
           officials; and 
 
           WHEREAS, subject to the law and the paramount requirements 
           of public service, effective labor-management relations 
           within the federal service require a clear statement of 
           the respective rights and obligations of labor 
           organizations and agency management; 
 
           NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows: 
 
                                Article 2--Purpose 
 
           The parties having as their intended purpose to promote 
           and improve the well being of employees and the efficiency 
           and effectiveness of government administration in areas of 
           personnel policies and practices affecting working 
           conditions in the federal service agree to the 
           establishment of orderly procedures as herein provided, 
           for meeting, conferring or negotiating on matters which 
           are permitted by applicable laws and regulations. The 

           Union, in fulfilling its obligations, will represent all 
           the employees in the unit without discrimination because 
           of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, or 
           handicapping condition, and without regard to membership 
           in the Union. It is recognized by both parties that in 
           order to bring about the stated purpose of this agreement 
           and preserve the public trust in carrying out the mission 
           of White Sands Missile Range, a cooperative and 
           constructive relationship must exist between the Union and 
           the Employer. 
 
                   Article 3--Recognition and Unit Designation 
 
           Section 1. The Employer recognizes Local 2049 of the 
           National Federation of Federal Employees as the Union and 
           the exclusive representative of all employees in the unit 
           described in Section 2 of this Article. 
 
           Section 2. The unit to which this agreement is applicable 
           is all nonsupervisory Department of Army Non-Appropriated 
           Fund (NAF) employees of the White Sands Missile Range in 
           New Mexico, excluding all professional employees; 
           management officials; supervisors, and employees described 
           in 5 U.S.C. 7112(b), (2), (3), (4), (6), and (7). 
 
                              Article 4--Definitions 
 
           Section 1. The following definitions of terms used in this 
           agreement shall apply: 
 

             

Amendments. Modifications of the basic agreement which add to, 
delete, or change sections or articles of the agreement. 
 

Authority.  The Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) 

                  established by the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. 
              

 

Emergency Situation.  

Grievance.  "Grievance" means any complaint: 

A sudden, immediate, and unforeseeable work requirement, 

involving preservation of health,welfare, and safety of 
personnel or protection of government property resulting from 
natural phenomena, civil disturbances, or other circumstances 
beyond the Employer's reasonable control or ability to 
anticipate. The parties recognize that this definition does 
not limit the Employer's right under 5 U.S.C. 7106(a)(2)(D) to 
take whatever actions may be necessary to carry out the agency 
mission during emergencies. 
 

By an employee concerning any matter relating to the 
employment of the employee; 
By any labor organization concerning any matter relating to 
the employment of any employee; or 
By an employee, labor organization, or agency concerning the 
effect or interpretation, or a claim of breach, of a 
collective bargaining agreement; or any claimed violation, 
misinterpretation, or misapplication of any law, rule, or 
regulation affecting conditions of employment. 

Impasse.   The inability of representatives of the Employer and the 
Union to arrive at a mutually agreeable decision concerning 
negotiable matters through the negotiation 

                                           

Negotiability Dispute. A disagreement between the parties as  

to the negotiability of an item, which must be resolved in 
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority. 
 

   
                     and the Union on appropriate issues relating to personnel 

Negotiation. Bargaining by representatives of the Employer 

 

policies, practices, and matters affecting working 
conditions, with the purpose of arriving at a formal 
agreement. 

 
            Supplements. Additional articles negotiated during the term 
                     of the basic agreement concerning matters not previously 
                     covered by the basic agreement. 
 

Union-Management Meetings. Meetings which are held for communication  

and exchange of views with the intent of agreeing on 
matters of mutual interest. 

Union Official/Union Representative. An accredited National  

Representative of the Union or the duly elected or 
appointed officials of Local 2049, including designated 

                     stewards. 
 
                  Article 5--Provisions of Laws and Regulations 
 
           Section 1. The Employer and the Union agree that in the 
           administration of all matters covered by this agreement, 
           the parties and employees are governed by: 

 

 

 

  Existing or future laws; 
   Existing government-wide rules or regulations; 
  Department of Defense and Department of Army rules and  
regulations in existence at the time this agreement is 
approved; and 

  Subsequently issued rules or regulations which do not conflict  
  with the terms of this agreement. 
 

This does not preclude the parties from negotiating on negotiable 
matters using the procedures outlined in Article 10 of this 
Agreement. 

 
                           Article 6--Management Rights 
 
           Section 1 . Rights Retained. The Employer retains the right 
           to  determine the mission, budget,  organization, number of 
           employees,  and internal security practices  of the agency; 
           and in accordance with applicable laws: 
 
              
To hire, assign, direct, lay off, and retain employees, or 
                  to suspend, remove, reduce in grade or pay, or take other 
                  disciplinary action against employees; 

To assign work, to make determinations with respect to 

              
                  contracting out, and to determine the personnel by which 
                  the Employer's operations shall be conducted; 
              
                  appointments from among properly ranked and certified 
                  candidates for promotion or from any other appropriate 
                  source; and 
              
                  Agency mission in situations of emergency. 
 
           Section 2. Future Agreements. The requirements of this 
           Article shall apply to all supplemental, implementing, 
           subsidiary, or informal agreements between the Employer 
           and the Union. 
 
           Section 3. The right to bargain over the impact of any 
           decision involving a retained right, and the right to 
           negotiate procedures implementing such decisions, shall 
           not be abridged by anything in this Article. 
 
           Section 4. Nothing in this section shall preclude the 
           Employer and the Union from negotiating: 
 

Procedures which management officials of the agency will 
observe in exercising any authority under this section; or 
Appropriate arrangements for employees adversely affected by 
the exercise of any authority under this section by such 
management officials. 

With respect to filling positions, to make selections for 

To take whatever actions may be necessary to carry out the 

 
           Section 5. Wherever language in the agreement refers to 
           specific duties or responsibilities of specific employees 
           or management officials, it is intended only to provide a 
           guide as to how a situation may be handled. It is agreed 
           that the Employer retains the sole discretion to assign 
           work and to determine who will perform the function 
           discussed. 
 
           Section 6. Pursuant to Executive Order 12871, the 
           Employer, upon request, will negotiate over the subjects 
           set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1). 
 
                            Article 7--Employee Rights 
 
           Section 1. Each employee in the bargaining unit covered by 
           this agreement shall have the right to form, join, or 
           assist any labor organization, or to refrain from any such 
           activity, freely and without fear of penalty or reprisal, 
           and each employee shall be protected in the exercise of 
           such right. 
 
           Section 2. Nothing in this agreement prevents a bargaining 
           unit employee, regardless of Union membership, from 
           bringing matters of personal concern to the attention of 
           appropriate officials in accordance with applicable laws, 
           rules, regulations, or established agency policies, or 
           from being represented by an attorney or other 
           representative, other than the Union, of the employee's 

           own choosing in any grievance or statutory appeal action, 
           except those filed under the negotiated grievance 
           procedure. 
 
           Section 3. Nothing in this agreement shall require an 
           employee to become or to remain a member of a labor 
           organization, or to pay money to the organization except 
           pursuant to a voluntary, written authorization by a member 
           for the payment of dues through payroll deduction. 
 
           Section 4. The Employer shall not discipline or otherwise 
           discriminate against any employee because he or she has 
           filed a complaint or given testimony under the Act, the 
           negotiated grievance procedure, or any other established 
           procedure for redress of employee dissatisfaction. 
 
           Section 5. The Employer shall take such action consistent 
           with law and regulation as may be required in order to 
           inform employees of their rights and obligations, as 
           prescribed in the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 and 
           this Article. 
 
           Section 6. ACCOUNTABILITY: An employee is accountable for 
           the performance of official duties and compliance with 
           standards of conduct for federal employees. Within this 
           context, the Employer affirms the right of an employee to 
           conduct his or her private life as he or she deems fit. 
           Employees shall have the right to engage in outside 
           activities of their own choosing without being required to 
           report to the Employer on such activities, except as 
           required by law or regulation of higher authority. The 
           Employer will not coerce or in any manner require 
           employees to invest their money, donate to charity, or 
           participate in activities not related to the performance 
           of their official duties or not related to their federal 
           employment. 
 
           Section 7. NONDISCRIMINATION: No employee will be 
           unlawfully discriminated against by either the Employer or 
           the Union because of race, color, religion, sex, national 
           origin, age, marital status, handicapping condition, or 
           lawful political affiliation. 
 
                    Article 8--Union Rights and Representation 
 
           Section 1. As the exclusive representative of employees in 
           the bargaining unit covered by this agreement, the Union 
           is entitled to act for and negotiate agreements covering 
           all employees in the unit. 
 
           Section 2. The Employer agrees to negotiate with the Union 
           on all negotiable matters required by law affecting the 
           employees or their conditions of employment or, as 
           applicable, on the implementation of any new policy or 
           changes in policy affecting the employees or their 
           conditions of employment. 
 

           Section 3. The Union shall be given the opportunity to be 
           represented at formal discussions between one or more 
           representatives of the Employer and one or more bargaining 
           unit employees, or their representatives, concerning 
           grievances, personnel policies and practices or other 
           general conditions of employment. The Union shall be 
           notified in advance of such formal meetings by management, 
           and of its right to be represented. 
 
           Section 4. The Union shall be given the opportunity to be 
           represented at any examination of a bargaining unit 
           employee by a representative of the Employer in connection 
           with an investigation if the employee reasonably believes 
           that the examination may result in disciplinary action 
           against him/her, and the employee requests representation. 
 

Section 5.  The Employer shall recognize the duly elected 
Local officers and official representatives designated by the 
Union, including stewards. The Union will supply the 
Employer, in writing, and will maintain on a current basis, a 
list of the Union officers and officials, including the 
stewards' areas of representation. The Union may post the 
list of Local officers and officials and/or area stewards on 
official bulletin boards in space which has been authorized 
for the Union's use. The Employer shall recognize as stewards 
only employees who work in the bargaining unit covered by 
this agreement, and who are officially designated in writing 
by the Union. This does not preclude the Union from electing 
as their officers members from outside the bargaining unit.  
The number of stewards authorized shall be the number 
reasonably required in order to insure that each bargaining 
unit employee shall have access to a steward on his/her work 
shift. The stewards will represent the employees of their 
designated area(s) in dealings with supervisors about the 
applications of personnel practices and policies, and other 
matters affecting working conditions in the designated 
area(s). Officers, the Chief Steward, the Grievance Committee 
Chairperson, or stewards as assigned are authorized to 
represent individuals in any part of the bargaining unit. 
Normally the designated steward in the area where the need 
for a representative arises will perform the representation 
duties required. When there is no steward available or 
another steward's services are deemed needed by the Union, 
the Union may assign a different steward. Upon request from 
either party, stewards and supervisors shall discuss 
informally items of concern in the application of this 
agreement to avoid misunderstanding and to deter complaints 
from either party. An employee may request a steward from 
another section in representation in accordance with the 
Local's policy. The Employer will recognize representatives 
of the Union's National Office. The Union or the national 
representative shall provide advance notice to the Employer 
of visits to be made by representatives of the National 
Office, or will call upon arrival when such advance notice is 
not practicable. 

 
           Section 6. Union officers and stewards, if otherwise in an 

           active duty status, will be allowed a reasonable amount of 
           official time away from their assigned duties without loss 
           of pay to receive, investigate, prepare, and present 
           employee grievances, appeals, or complaints, or to discuss 
           with appropriate officials of the Employer other matters 
           related to personnel policies, practices, and working 
           conditions affecting bargaining unit employees. 
           Representation shall occur at the lowest level at which a 
           matter can be resolved, and the initial attempt at 
           resolution normally should occur between the Union steward 
           and the first level supervisor. If either party believes 
           resolution of a matter of concern is outside its 
           jurisdiction, the matter shall be referred to those 
           officials of the Employer or the Union who have the 
           authority to act upon the problem. The Union agrees that 
           it will guard against the use of excessive time whenever 
           such representational duties are being performed during 
           the regular duty hours. Reasonable time for receiving, 
           investigating, preparing, and presenting a complaint, 
           grievance, or appeal must necessarily depend on the facts 
           and circumstances of each--e.g., number and nature of 
           allegations, number and complexity of supporting 
           specifics, the volume of supporting evidence, availability 
           of documents and witnesses and similar considerations. A 
           reasonable amount of official time for representational 
           purposes will be granted for use within the confines of 
           the activity. A Union representative required to travel 
           off-post for representational purposes will be granted a 
           reasonable amount of official time for this purpose. 
           Reasonable official time not to exceed 24 hours per year 
           will be permitted Union officials for preparation of 
           information reports required under 5 U.S.C. 7120(c). The 
           Union Treasurer will be authorized up to four (4) hours 
           per month official time for maintenance of financial 
           records directly required for the above reports. The Union 
           recognizes that such official time is not authorized for 
           internal union business. 
 
           Section 7. Union officers and stewards, when they desire 
           to leave their worksite to perform representational 
           duties, shall first obtain permission from their immediate 
           supervisor, or in the absence of the immediate supervisor, 
           the next higher level of supervision. Such permission will 
           normally be granted unless compelling circumstances 
           preclude leaving at that particular time. If permission is 
           denied, the supervisor will inform the Union 
           representative of the reason for the denial and of the 
           earliest possible time when the Union representative can 
           leave his/her worksite. If the Union representative must 
           meet with supervisors, management officials, or employees 
           in another shop or worksite, he/she will insure that these 
           individuals are available to meet before leaving his/her 
           work area. Upon entering a shop or work area other than 
           his/her own to meet with an employee, the Union 
           representative shall contact the employee's supervisor. 
           Union representatives will report to their immediate 
           supervisors upon return to their assigned work areas. 

Section 8. Any bargaining unit employee serving as a Union  
negotiator in collective bargaining sessions with the  
Employer shall be authorized official time for such purposes,  
including attendance at impasse proceedings, during the time  
the bargaining unit employee otherwise would be in a duty  
status. The number of bargaining unit employees for whom  
official time is authorized for negotiations shall not exceed  
the number of individuals designated as representing the  
Employer for such purposes. 
The Employer further agrees that each bargaining unit  
employee designated in writing by the Union to serve on the  
Union negotiating team shall be granted official duty time  
for preparation for negotiations in the following amounts: 
 

Twenty-four (24) hours of official duty time to prepare for 
renegotiation of this agreement; 
Twelve (12) hours of official duty time for the duration of 
this agreement to prepare for mid-term bargaining required 
to amend or supplement this agreement; 
Four (4) hours of official duty time for each instance of 
preparation for impact and implementation bargaining 
necessitated by the Employer's proposed changes to its 
local regulations concerning personnel policies, practices, 
and working conditions affecting bargaining unit employees. 
In unusual circumstances, such as a proposed major 
reorganization, additional preparation time up to 16 hours 
will be granted. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

   
 
           Section 9. When the Employer calls a meeting with Union 
           representatives or arranges such a meeting at the request 
           of the Union to discuss matters of mutual interest, the 
           Union representatives will be granted official duty time 
           for such meetings, provided they are otherwise in an 
           active duty status. If a particular Union representative 
           designated to attend the meeting is not otherwise in a 
           duty status, the parties will attempt to reschedule the 
           meeting. Upon the request of the Union representative, the 
           Employer will consider changing the tour of duty of the 
           Union representative to accommodate his/her attendance at 
           the meeting. 
 
           Section 10. All official time used by Union officers and 
           stewards in performing authorized representational duties 
           under this Article will be recorded on an official time 
           form (Appendix A). Union representatives and supervisors 
           will be responsible for promptly and accurately completing 
           their respective portions of the form. 
 
           Section 11. In the interest of efficient conduct of 
           government business and the economical use of government 
           time, and in order to draw a reasonable distinction 
           between representational and non-representational duties, 
           those activities concerned with the internal management of 
           the Union, or solicitations of membership, collection of 
           dues, campaigning for Union officers, conduct of elections 
           for Union officers and distribution of literature will be 

           conducted outside regular working hours. Upon advance 
           written request and subject to normal security 
           restrictions, the Union shall be granted permission to 
           conduct membership drives of up to 30 days duration each 
           year during the non-work time of the employees involved, 
           provided there is no interference with the work of the 
           Employer. Such membership drives shall not exceed two (2) 
           per calendar year. 
 
           Section 12. There shall be no restraint, coercion, or 
           discrimination against any Union official because of the 
           performance of duties in consonance with this agreement 
           and the Civil Service Reform Act. 
 
           Section 13. Bargaining unit members who desire to attend 
           the monthly union membership meeting may request in 
           advance from their supervisors a change of tour of duty 
           for that day. Such a change of tour of duty will require 
           the bargaining unit employee to make up the duty time 
           missed on that same day. Subject to mission requirements, 
           the Employer agrees to normally grant such requests for a 
           tour of duty change. 
 
                        Article 9--Union-Employer Meetings 
 
           Section 1. The parties agree that meetings between 
           representatives of the Employer and the Union shall be 
           held as necessary for the purpose of exchanging 
           information of mutual interest; attempting to resolve 
           problems concerning the working environment of bargaining 
           unit employees; administering this agreement; and 
           conferring on personnel policies, practices or other 
           matters affecting the working conditions of bargaining 
           unit employees. Union-management meetings shall in no way 
           nullify or abrogate the right of the Union to negotiate on 
           all negotiable matters. Such meetings shall be conducted 
           in an atmosphere that will foster mutual respect. In the 
           interest of efficient use of personnel resources, the 
           parties agree that the number of Union representatives in 
           attendance at such meetings shall be no less than two (2) 
           nor more than four (4) to effectively transact the 
           business of the meeting. 
 
           Section 2. Joint Union-Employer meetings shall be held at 
           mutually agreeable times upon request by either party. 
           Either party desiring to meet with the other shall give 
           advance notice to the other party. Specific item(s) for 
           discussion normally will be provided in advance of the 
           meeting by either party, although items not submitted may 
           be discussed if it is mutually agreed to do so. New or 
           changed policy proposals which cannot be readily agreed to 
           at a Union-Employer meeting may be submitted for 
           negotiation in accordance with negotiation procedures 
           established in this agreement. Union-Employer meetings 
           will be conducted during regular duty hours, with Union 
           officials in attendance authorized official time without 
           charge to leave or loss of pay if they are otherwise in an 

           active duty status. Emergency meetings will be arranged at 
           the convenience of both parties involved as soon as 
           possible after a request by either party is received, and 
           such request shall indicate the subject matter for 
           discussion. 
 
                             Article 10--Negotiations 
 
           Section 1. Both parties to this agreement have the 
           responsibility of conducting negotiations and other 
           dealings in good faith, and in such manner as will further 
           the public interest. The procedures established in this 
           Article shall be used by the parties when negotiating on 
           all negotiable matters required by law affecting the 
           employees or their conditions of employment, or as 
           applicable, on the implementation of any new policy or 
           change in policy affecting the employees or their 
           conditions of employment. These procedures also apply to 
           the negotiation of supplements and amendments to the basic 
           agreement between the parties. The Employer agrees to 
           provide the Union with advance written notice of and an 
           opportunity to negotiate on these negotiable matters. 
           Management recognizes the Union's right to submit changes 
           or additional counterproposals at the bargaining table. 
 
           Section 2. Upon being notified by the Employer of a 
           proposed new policy or practice, or a proposed change to 
           existing policy or practice, the Union shall have five (5) 
           workdays in which to review the Employer's proposal and 
           advise the Employer of its intentions. If the proposal is 
           acceptable as presented by the Employer, the Union shall 
           notify the Employer of this fact. If the Union has 
           questions regarding the proposal, or desires 
           clarification, the Union shall make a request to the NAF 
           Personnel Office to meet with the proposal's proponent in 
           order to discuss and clarify the proposal. The Union will 
           indicate the specific area(s) requiring clarification or 
           discussion, and the Employer will arrange a meeting with 
           the proponent at a mutually agreed upon time. If, after 
           discussion with the proponent, the proposal is acceptable 
           to the Union, the Union shall notify the Employer of this 
           fact. If the proposal is unacceptable after discussion 
           with the proponent, the Union shall submit a written 
           request to negotiate the proposal to the NAF Personnel 
           Office within five (5) workdays after the discussion. If 
           there are no questions, and the proposal is not 
           acceptable, the Union shall submit a written request to 
           negotiate the proposal to the NAF Personnel Office within 
           five (5) workdays after being advised of the proposal. To 
           facilitate the negotiating process, all requests for 
           negotiations shall be accompanied by a copy of the 
           specific counterproposal desired by the Union. 
           Non-response by the Union within the established time 
           frames will be interpreted as acceptance by the Union, and 
           the Employer may implement the proposal without further 
           notice. Negotiations requested by the Union regarding a 
           proposed new policy or practice or a proposed change to 

           existing policy or practice, which would affect the 
           working conditions of bargaining unit employees shall be 
           conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
           Sections 3, 4, and 5 of this Article. 
 
           Section 3. The following procedures will be used when 
           negotiating amendments or supplements to this agreement. 
           Negotiation sessions may be requested in writing by either 
           party. Such requests shall state the specific subject 
           matter to be considered at such sessions, and shall 
           contain written proposals for consideration by the other 
           party. 
 

The negotiating teams of each party shall consist of no more 
than five (5) members. The chief spokesperson for each party 
will speak for their respective teams, but may at their 
discretion allow their other team members to participate in 
any discussion. A chief spokesperson shall be designated in 
writing by each party.  Names of the members on each 
negotiating team will be exchanged formally by the parties in 
writing no later than three (3) calendar days prior to the 
beginning of negotiations. Any changes regarding team 
membership will be submitted to the other party no later than 
one (1) day prior to the next negotiation session.  
Negotiations will begin on a mutually agreed date no later 
than 30 days from receipt of proposals. The Employer will 
furnish a room suitable for negotiations, and to the extent 
possible, room(s) that will allow both parties to caucus. 
Union negotiators who are members of the bargaining unit for 
which negotiations are being conducted will be authorized 
official time for the negotiation sessions, during the time 
the Union negotiator otherwise would be in a duty status. 

contract, the chief spokespersons shall signify agreement by 
initialing the agreed upon item. Upon reaching agreement on 
all supplements or amendments, the agreement shall be signed 
by the members of both negotiating committees, ratified by 
the Union members in a manner prescribed by the Union and, 
upon ratification, signed by the Union President and the 
Employer. It is recognized by the parties that all 
supplements or amendments to this agreement are subject to 
review for legal and regulatory compliance by the Defense 
Civilian Personnel Management Service. Any supplements or 
amendments will remain effective concurrent to the basic 
agreement. 

          Upon reaching agreement on any supplement or amendment to the  

          Upon reaching agreement on a proposed new policy or practice,  
or a proposed change to existing policy or practice affecting  
 
the conditions of employment of bargaining unit employees,  
 
the spokespersons for the Employer and the Union shall sign  
 
 
the agreement reached, ith a copy of the agreement provided  
 
to both parties. 
 
           Section 4. When the parties to the agreement cannot agree 
           on a negotiable matter and an impasse has been reached, 
           either or both parties may seek the services of the 
           Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. When the 
           services of mediation do not resolve the impasse, either 

           party may seek the services of the Federal Service 
           Impasses Panel. 
 
           Section 5. If an issue develops over the negotiability of 
           any item under discussion by the parties, the issue will 
           be resolved in accordance with applicable provisions of 
           Title VII of the CSRA and the rules and regulations of the 
           Federal Labor Relations Authority. 
 
           Section 6. The Employer agrees to negotiate with the Union 
           on all negotiable matters required by law affecting the 
           employees or their conditions of employment or, as 
           applicable, on the implementation of any new policy or 
           changes in policy affecting the employees or their 
           conditions of employment. 
 
                         Article 11--Grievance Procedures 
 
           Section 1. This negotiated grievance procedure shall apply 
           to matters of concern or dissatisfaction regarding the 
           interpretation, application, or violations of law, 
           regulations, or this agreement; conditions of employment, 
           including prohibited personnel practice charges; and 
           disciplinary and adverse actions. It shall apply to all 
           matters indicated above, whether or not set forth in this 
           agreement. 
 
           Section 2. The Union and the Employer recognize the 
           importance of settling disagreements and disputes in a 
           prompt, fair, and orderly manner which will maintain the 
           self-respect of the parties involved and be consistent 
           with the principles of good management. To accomplish 
           this, every effort will be made to settle grievances 
           expeditiously and at the lowest possible level of 
           supervision. 
 
           Section 3. Excluded from coverage of this procedure are 
           all issues which involve: 
 

Prohibited political activities. 
Retirement, life insurance, or health insurance. 
suspension or removal under Section 7532 of Title 5, 
United States Code (National Security). 
Any examination, certification, or appointment. 
The classification of any position which does not result in 
the reduction in grade or pay of an employee. 
The non-adoption of a suggestion or disapproval of a 
performance award, or other kind of honorary or 
discretionary award, except where this is alleged to be 
based on reprisal. 
Termination of a temporary promotion and return of the 
employee who was temporarily promoted to the position from 
which temporarily promoted. 
Non-selection for promotion from a group of properly ranked 
and certified candidates, except where personnel practices 
prohibited by law are alleged. 
A preliminary warning or notice of an action which, if 

effected, would then be eligible for consideration as a 
grievance. 
Separation of employees during probationary or trial 
periods. 
Allegations of mismanagement when no form of personal 
relief to the employee is appropriate. 
Allegations of discrimination involving Equal Employment 
Opportunity (EEO) matters. 
Matters accepted by the Inspector General or Auditor 
General for review. 
Personnel actions voluntarily requested by the employee. 
Separation for disqualification as stated in AR 215-3. 
Separation from flexible appointment unless the separation 
is for business based reasons, and the employee has been on 
the rolls of the NAFI for three (3) continuous years. (See 
Article 33, section 5). 
Management decisions regarding budget, workload, 
organization, and mission which result in BBA. 

 
           Section 4. Questions that cannot be resolved by the 
           parties as to whether or not a grievance is on a matter 
           subject to the grievance procedure or is subject to 
           arbitration will be referred to an arbitrator as a 
           threshold issue in the arbitration on the merits of the 
           grievance. 
 
           Section 5. A grievance may be undertaken by the Union, an 
           employee, or a group of employees. An employee or group of 
           employees in the bargaining unit covered by this 
           agreement, in filing a grievance under this procedure, may 
           be represented only by the Union. In this context, the 
           Employer recognizes the right of the Union to designate 
           its own representatives. An employee or group of employees 
           wishing to present such a grievance without Union 
           representation may do so; however, any adjustment of the 
           grievance must not be inconsistent with the terms of this 
           agreement, and the Union shall be afforded the opportunity 
           to be present during the grievance proceeding. In 
           exercising their rights to present a grievance, bargaining 
           unit employees and Union representatives shall be 
           unimpeded and free from restraint, coercion, 
           discrimination, or reprisal. 
 
           Section 6 . Use of official (duty) time and resources. 
 

The employee and his or her designated representative may 
use reasonable amounts of official time, subject to 
supervisory approval, when a personnel action or a 
disciplinary action is being grieved. The time allowed 
depends on the facts of the specific case. 
Official time may be used to: 

 
Get advice on rights and privileges from official 
sources. 
Get information from witnesses. 
Present grievances. 

 

 

 

Official time not to exceed eight hours at each step of the 
negotiated grievance procedure will be granted for 
preparing a grievance, organizing materials, writing or 
typing. 
Subject to supervisory approval and mission requirements of 
the facility, resources of the Employer such as word 
processors, supplies, and materials may be used to process 
a grievance claim. 

Section 7. If a bargaining unit employee resigns, 
transfers, or otherwise leaves the bargaining unit prior 
to the issuance of a final decision on his/her grievance, 
and no issue of compensation is involved, the grievance 
will be terminated and all parties notified in writing by 
the Employer. 
 
Section 8. The following steps will be used for resolving 
grievances under this procedure:            

Step 1. The grievance shall first be presented orally to 
the immediate supervisor by the grievant and his/her Union 
representative, if the aggrieved party elects to have one. 
If the grievance involves the first line supervisor, the 
grievant may go to the second level supervisor with 
his/her Step 1 grievance. On the date the Step 1 grievance 
is presented, the grievant or his/her union 
representative, if any, will serve written notice on the 
next level of supervision that a Step 1 grievance has been 
filed, and indicate the date of the Step 1 meeting. The 
Step 1 grievance must be initiated within 20 calendar days 
of the incident that gave rise to the grievance, unless 
the grievant was unaware of the incident by such time. In 
that case, the grievance must be initiated within 20 
calendar days from the date the grievant becomes aware of 
the incident. The grievant shall plainly identify the 
discussion as a grievance, provide his/her supervisor with 
specific details of the grievance, and indicate the 
corrective action desired in order to resolve the 
grievance. The supervisor will provide a written decision 
to the grievant, with a copy to his/her Union 
representative, if any, within seven (7) calendar days 
after presentation of the grievance. Included with such 
decision shall be a written statement indicating the 
grievant's right to submit the grievance to the next level 
of supervision within ten (10) calendar days. 
 
Step 2. If a satisfactory settlement has not been reached 
at Step 1, the grievant or his/her representative will 
submit the grievance in writing within ten (10) calendar 
days to the next higher level supervisor, who shall call 
and arrange to meet with the grievant and his/her 
representative within five (5) calendar days after 
receiving the written grievance. The written grievance 
shall also contain the duty phone numbers of the grievant 
and his/her Union representative, if any. A written 
decision will be provided to the grievant with a copy to 
his/her Union representative, if any, within ten (10) 

calendar days following the meeting. 
              
Step 3. If a satisfactory settlement has not been reached 
at Step 2, the grievant or his/her representative will 
submit the grievance in writing within ten (10) calendar 
days from receipt of the Step 2 decision to the Garrison 
Commander or his/her designated representative. The 
Garrison Commander or his/her designated representative 
will review the grievance, conduct whatever analysis and 
investigation he/she deems necessary to resolve the 
grievance, and render a written decision on the grievance 
no later than ten (10) calendar days from date of receipt 
of the employee's grievance. 
              
Step 4. If a satisfactory settlement has not been reached 
at Step 3, the grievant or his/her representative will 
submit the grievance in writing within ten (10) calendar 
days from receipt of the Step 3 decision to the 
installation Commander or his/her designated 
representative. The installation Commander or his/her 
designated representative will review the grievance, 
conduct whatever analysis and investigation he/she deems 
necessary to resolve the grievance, and render a written 
decision on the grievance no later than ten (10) calendar 
days from the date of receipt of the employee’s grievance. 
If the decision is unsatisfactory to the Union, the Union 
may invoke arbitration in accordance with the provisions 
of Article 12. 

 
           Section 9. Grievances of the Union against the Employer 
           will be submitted in writing by the Union President, or 
           his/her designee, to the installation Commander within 15 
           calendar days of the occurrence which caused the 
           grievance. The written grievance will state the basis for 
           the grievance and the corrective action sought. A meeting 
           will be held within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of 
           the Union grievance between appropriate officials of the 
           Employer and the Union in an attempt to resolve the 
           grievance. The Union President, or his/her designee, will 
           be given a written decision by the installation Commander 
           or his/her designated representative within ten (10) 
           calendar days after the meeting. If the grievance is not 
           resolved to the satisfaction of the Union, the Union 
           President may then submit the grievance to arbitration 
           under the provisions of Article 12. 
 
           Section 10. Employer grievances against the Union will be 
           submitted by the installation Commander, or his/her 
           designee, to the Union president within 15 calendar days 
           of the occurrence which caused the grievance. The written 
           grievance will state the basis for the grievance and the 
           corrective action sought. A meeting will be held within 
           ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the Employer 
           grievance between appropriate officials of the Employer 
           and the Union in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The 
           installation Commander, or his/her designee, will be given 
           a written decision by the Union President, or his/her 

           designee, within ten (10) calendar days after the meeting. 
           If the grievance is not resolved to the satisfaction of 
           the Employer, the installation Commander or his/her 
           designee may then submit the grievance to arbitration 
           under the provisions of Article 12. 
 
           Section 11. Failure of the Employer to observe the time 
           limits for any step in the grievance procedure shall 
           entitle the grievant or the Union to advance the grievance 
           to the next step. Failure of the grievant or the Union to 
           observe the time limits at any step of the procedure will 
           have the effect of cancelling the grievance as untimely. 
           All time limits may be extended by mutual consent. A 
           grievance may be withdrawn by the proponent at any time. 
 
           Section 12. Grievances Concerning Disciplinary Actions. If 
           a bargaining unit employee desires to contest by means of 
           the negotiated grievance procedure a disciplinary action 
           imposed by the Employer, he/she will initiate the 
           grievance in writing at Step 3 of the negotiated procedure 
           set forth in Section 8 of this Article. 
 
                             Article 12--Arbitration 
 
           Section 1. If the Employer and the Union fail to settle 
           any grievance within the scope of the negotiated grievance 
           procedure described in Article 11 of this agreement, the 
           grievance shall be submitted to arbitration upon written 
           request of the party desiring arbitration. Such written 
           request must be received by the other party within 20 
           working days after issuance of the final decision on the 
           grievance. However, only the Union or the Employer may 
           invoke arbitration. 
 
           Section 2. Within five (5) working days from the date of 
           receipt of an arbitration request, the parties shall meet 
           in an attempt to select an arbitrator. If agreement cannot 
           be reached, the parties shall request the Federal 
           Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) to submit a list 
           of seven (7) impartial persons qualified to act as 
           arbitrators. A brief statement of the issues in dispute 
           will accompany the request to enable the FMCS to submit 
           the names of arbitrators qualified for the issues 
           involved. The request also shall include a copy of this 
           arbitration Article. Either party may request a second 
           list of arbitrators if dissatisfied with the original list 
           of arbitrators. The parties shall meet within five (5) 
           working days after the receipt of such list to select an 
           arbitrator. If the parties cannot agree upon one (1) of 
           the listed arbitrators, the Employer and the Union will 
           each alternately strike one (1) arbitrator's name from the 
           list and shall repeat this procedure until there is one 
           (1) name remaining. The remaining name on the list shall 
           be the duly selected arbitrator. A flip of a coin shall 
           determine which party strikes the first name. The party 
           requesting arbitration may withdraw the request at any 
           time prior to the actual convening of a hearing or 

           submission of the case to the arbitrator. However, once a 
           definite hearing date has been established with an 
           arbitrator, it is agreed that the party requesting such a 
           withdrawal will make every reasonable effort to notify the 
           other party and the arbitrator of its desire as far in 
           advance of the scheduled hearing date as possible. Any 
           costs assessed by an arbitrator because of the 
           cancellation or postponement of a previously scheduled 
           hearing shall be borne by the party which requested such 
           cancellation or postponement. Should the Employer be 
           unable to assure the availability of witnesses as stated 
           in Section 5 of this Article, the Employer will request 
           cancellation or postponement. If cancellation or 
           postponement was necessitated by an act of God, the cost 
           of the cancellation or postponement shall be borne equally 
           by the parties. 
 
           Section 3. Following selection of the arbitrator and 
           indication of his/her availability, the parties will 
           attempt to prepare a joint letter submitting the issue or 
           issues to be decided by the arbitrator. Such letter shall 
           present the matter upon which arbitration is sought and 
           shall include the agreement provisions governing the 
           arbitration. If the parties fail to agree on a joint 
           submission of the issue or issues for arbitration, each 
           party will submit in writing a statement of what they 
           believe to be the issue(s) to the other party and to the 
           arbitrator. The arbitrator then shall determine the issue 
           or issues to be decided, to include any questions of 
           arbitrability. 
 
           Section 4. When the Employer and the Union agree to the 
           facts at issue and believe that an arbitration hearing 
           would be unnecessary, the parties may submit in writing a 
           joint stipulation of facts to the arbitrator with a 
           request that a decision be rendered based upon the facts 
           jointly presented. 
 
           Section 5. A submission to the arbitration hearing should 
           be used when a formal hearing is necessary to develop and 
           establish facts relevant to the issue. In this case, a 
           formal hearing is convened and conducted by the 
           arbitrator. The arbitration hearing shall be held on the 
           Employer's premises during the regular day-shift hours of 
           the normal basic work week. The aggrieved employee, 
           his/her Union representative, and the employee witnesses 
           who have direct knowledge of the circumstances and factors 
           bearing on the case shall be excused from duty for a 
           reasonable period of time without loss of pay or charge to 
           annual leave to prepare for arbitration. The aggrieved 
           employee and his/her Union representative will be granted 
           official duty time to participate in the arbitration 
           proceeding. All witnesses of both parties will be present 
           at the beginning of the arbitration session. If the 
           arbitrator determines that time will not permit 
           witness(es) to testify on that day, or that the presence 
           of a particular witness is not otherwise required, the 

           employee(s) will return to their worksite. The Employer 
           agrees to assure that all witnesses otherwise in a duty 
           status will be readily available to testify as required by 
           the arbitrator. Employee participants assigned to tours of 
           duty other than the regular day-shift will be temporarily 
           placed on the day-shift for the day(s) of the arbitration 
           hearing. Travel costs, overtime, and other expenses of 
           employee participants shall not be borne by the Employer. 
 
           Section 6. The arbitrator will be requested to render 
           his/her decision as quickly as possible, but in any event 
           not later than 30 calendar days after the conclusion of 
           the hearing unless the parties mutually agree to extend 
           the time limit. 
 
           Section 7. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add 
           to, change, modify, alter, or delete any provision of this 
           agreement. The authority of the arbitrator will extend to 
           the interpretation of agency regulations, provisions of 
           law, or regulations of appropriate authorities outside the 
           agency. The arbitrator will make no findings of fact, 
           recommendations, or interpretations of this agreement 
           except to the extent necessary to resolve the issue(s) 
           submitted or determined. 
 
           Section 8. The arbitrator's fee and expenses shall be 
           borne equally by the parties. The Employer and the Union 
           shall share equally the expense of any mutually agreed 
           upon services in connection with the arbitration. The 
           parties shall bear their own individual expenses during 
           the arbitration proceedings. 
 
           Section 9. The arbitrator's decision shall be binding on 
           the parties. However, either party may file exceptions to 
           the arbitration award in accordance with the provisions of 
           Title VII of the Civil Service Reform Act and the Rules 
           and Regulations of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. 
 
                  Article 13--Voluntary Allotment of Union Dues 
 
           Section 1. The Employer shall deduct Union dues from the 
           pay of all employees covered by this agreement who 
           voluntarily authorize such deductions, subject to the 
           provisions and requirements set forth in this agreement. 
 
           Section 2. The Union and the Employer shall be held 
           harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or 
           other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by 
           reasons of action taken or not taken by the Union and the 
           Employer for the purpose of complying with any of the 
           provisions of this agreement. 
 
           Section 3. The amount of Union dues to be deducted each 
           biweekly pay period from the pay of an employee who has 
           authorized an allotment for this purpose shall be as 
           certified to on the SF 1187, "Request for Payroll 
           Deductions for Labor Organization Dues," by the President 

           or other authorized officer of the Union. This amount is a 
           prorated amount of annual dues of the employee-member, 
           exclusive of initiation fees, assessments, back dues, and 
           fines. If the amount of allotted dues is changed by the 
           Union, the President or other appropriate official of the 
           Union will notify the Employer in writing of the amended 
           rate and effective date of the amended dues amount. The 
           amended amount will be withheld effective with the next 
           pay period unless a later date is specified by the Union, 
           and provided the notice is received at NAF Financial 
           Services at least three (3) workdays before the first day 
           of the pay period. 
 
           Section 4. Any employee of the unit may voluntarily 
           authorize an allotment of pay for the payment of dues for 
           such membership except: 
 

           Section 5. Use of Employee Authorization Form. 

 

An allotment deduction may not be made from the 
salary of an employee (part time or flexible) whose 
earnings are not regularly sufficient to cover the 
amount of the allotment. Dues will not be withheld if 
net salary, after legal deductions, is not sufficient 
to cover the amount of the dues. If deductions are 
stopped temporarily because of insufficient salary, 
back dues will not be deducted from future earnings. 

 
The Union will procure and furnish forms SF 1187 
"Request for Payroll Deductions for Labor 
Organizations Dues." After completing the form, the 
employee-member will return it to the Union for 
certification by an officer of the Union. 
The Union will submit the completed and certified SF 
1187 to NAF Personnel Office. Allotments will be 
effective with the next pay period following receipt 
of a properly executed SF 1187 by NAF Financial 
Services, provided the form is received at least 
three (3) workdays before the beginning of that pay 
period. 
 

           Section 6. Termination of Allotment. 
 

Voluntary. Any employee may voluntarily revoke 
his/her allotment for the payment of dues at any time 
by completing SF 1188, "Cancellation of Payroll 
Deductions for Labor Organization Dues" and 
submitting this form directly to NAF Financial 
Services. When the employee cannot or does not 
desire to use the SF 1188, other written notification 
signed and submitted by the employee will be accepted 
by NAF Financial Services. 

 
                National Federation of Federal Employees 
 
                Local 2049 
                Drawer M 

                White Sands Missile Range, NM 88002 
 

Such revocation may not be effective for a period of 
one (1) year from the date the allotment was first 
made. Subsequently, an individual's revocation may be 
submitted at any time but will not become effective 
until the next anniversary date, that is, the first 
full pay period which begins on or after 1 November. 
Immediately upon receipt by NAF Financial Services of 
an SF 1188 or another proper documentation which 
discontinues the allotment for dues deduction of a 
Union member, the Union will be provided with a copy of 
the SF 1188 or a duplicate copy of other documentation 
received denoting this intent and desire. These copies 
will be forwarded to: 

                  SF 1188 will be provided by the Employer. 

 

 

Involuntary. An employee's allotment for payment of 
his/her Union dues and the benefits derived therefrom 
shall be terminated at the beginning of the first pay 
period occur: 

Loss of exclusive recognition by the Union. 
Transfer of the employee outside of the Union's 
exclusively recognized bargaining unit. This does not 
preclude the employee from making direct payment of 
dues to the Union in order to continue the benefits of 
membership.  
Separation of the employee for any reason including 
death or retirement. Final deduction automatically will 
be made from the final salary check, even if the 
employee separates during a pay period. 
Receipt by the Employer of written notice that the 
employee has been expelled or has ceased to be a member 
in good standing of the Union.  
Suspension or termination of this agreement by an 
appropriate authority outside the Department of 
Defense. 
 

           Section 7. 
 
           National Federation of Federal Employees 
           ATTN: Secretary-Treasurer 
           1016 16th Street, NW 
           Washington, DC 20036 
 

A bi-weekly remittance check will be prepared by NAF 
Financial Services at the close of each pay period for 
which deductions are made. This check will be for the total 
amount of dues collected for that pay period. There will be 
no charge to the Union for making dues deductions. Not 
later than three (3) workdays after the related salary 
checks have been distributed, the remittance check will be 
mailed to: 
NAF Financial Services will include with each remittance 
check an accurate listing of the employee-member names and 
amount withheld from each. The list also will include the 

names of employee-members for whom allotments have been 
permanently or temporarily stopped and the reason therefore 
(e.g., transfer, separation, LWOP, insufficient income 

            during pay period, loss of membership in the Union). 
 
           Section 8. Information and Education. The Union will 
           inform and educate its members concerning the program, the 
           voluntary nature of the authorization for the allotment of 
           dues, and the uses and availability of SF 1187 and SF 
           1188. 
 
           Section 9. Voluntary Nature of the Program. Nothing in 
           this agreement shall require an employee to become or 
           remain a member of the Union, or to pay money to the Union 
           except through a voluntary written authorization for the 
           payment of dues through payroll deductions in accordance 
           with the provisions of this agreement. 
 
               Article 14--Use of Official Facilities and Services 
 
           Section 1. Union representatives on official time for 
           representational duties will be afforded an area of 
           privacy when meeting with unit employees. The Employer 
           will assist in providing such privacy within or in close 
           proximity to the Employer’s facilities. Union 
           representatives are not limited to the confines of their 
           NAF facility when official time for representational 
           duties is being used. However, the private space made 
           available by management will normally be utilized first 
           prior to utilizing the union office. 
 
           Section 2. It is recognized by the parties that the 
           internal mail service of the Employer has been established 
           for the distribution of official mail directly related to 
           the mission of White Sands Missile Range. The Employer 
           therefore agrees to allow the Union to use the on-post 
           distribution system for the dissemination of 
           correspondence directly related to the Union's 
           representational responsibilities involving employees in 
           the bargaining unit covered by this agreement. The Union 
           agrees that the use of the Employer's internal mail 
           service does not extend to any written material relating 
           to the Union's internal affairs, such as monthly 
           newsletters, notices of elections, or solicitations of 
           membership. 
 
           Section 3. Reasonable space on official bulletin boards of 
           the Employer which are located at or near the worksites of 
           bargaining unit employees shall be available for use by 
           the Union in accordance with applicable regulations. Any 
           information posted by the Union will not violate any law 
           or applicable regulation, or contain libelous material. 
           The Union will be solely responsible for all posted 
           material in terms of accuracy and adherence to ethical 
           standards, will insure that material is kept current, and 
           will maintain its designated bulletin board space in a 
           neat and orderly manner. The space authorized for the 

           Union's use will be clearly marked by the words "NFFE 
           Local 2049". 
 
           Section 4. A copy of this agreement will be furnished to 
           all present and future bargaining unit employees covered 
           by this agreement and to the supervisory personnel 
           responsible for administering this agreement. The cost of 
           printing this agreement shall be borne by the Employer. 
 
           Section 5. The Employer agrees to furnish to the Union 
           once every three (3) months a complete listing of 
           employees in the bargaining unit covered by this 
           agreement. Such listing shall contain names, job 
           classification, and organizational location of each 
           employee. 
 
           Section 6. One (1) copy of the NAF Supervisor's Guide, and 
           any changes thereto, will be provided to the Union. Copies 
           of regulations and policies issued by the Office of 
           Personnel Management, other appropriate authorities, or 
           the agency are accessible to the Union through the NAF 
           Personnel Office library, or the Adjutant General library. 
 

Section 7. The Employer agrees to allow the Union officers 
to use copy machines to make copies of material directly            
related to their representational duties. This material 
will consist of grievances, appeals, responses to proposed            
disciplinary actions, including supporting documentation,            
and Union responses to Employer correspondence. This does            
not extend to any material relating to the Union's            
internal affairs. The Union will abide by the standard            
operational and accountability procedures for the copier            
followed by other organizations.            
 
Section 8. The Employer agrees that prompt notification                      
will be given to Union officers and stewards as necessary 
regarding briefings and group meetings affecting 
bargaining unit employees, regardless of the means of 
communication used for such notification (e.g., 
memorandum, phone call, electronic mail).            

Article 15--Orientation of New Bargaining Unit Employees 

 
              
 
           Section 1. All new employees shall be informed by the 
           Employer that NFFE Local 2049 is the exclusive 
           representative of employees in the bargaining unit. Each 
           new bargaining unit employee shall receive a copy of this 
           agreement from the Employer, together with a union 
           orientation package which includes a list of NFFE Local 
           2049 Officers and representatives. The Union will provide 
           this package to the Employer. 
 
                   Article 16--Basic Workweek and Hours of Duty 
 
           Section 1. A majority of bargaining unit employees will be 
           on varying tours, including days, nights, weekends, and 
           holidays. Work schedules may change from week to week 

The Employer recognizes the need to notify employees of 
changes in the individual's normal basic workweek as far in 

(2) weeks in advance of the change when the requirement is 
known at least two (2) weeks in advance. 
When a change in an individual's normal basic workweek is 
required with less than two (2) weeks notice, the Employer 
will notify the employee as far in advance as practicable, 
normally not later than the end of the administrative 
workweek prior to the week in which the changed schedule is 
to be worked, unless the head of the agency determines that 
it would be seriously handicapped in carrying out its 
functions or that costs would be substantially increased. 
Flexible employees are on varying work schedules. Schedules 
may change from day to day. Employees will be notified as 
far in advance as practicable. 

           based on mission requirements. Hours of work, shifts, and 
           tours of duty have been established by the Employer in 
           accordance with management's retained rights under 5 
           U.S.C. 7106. The Employer recognizes that the impact and 
           implementation of its decisions to change established 
           hours of work, shifts, and tours of duty is a proper 
           subject of bargaining. 
 
 
       
          advance as practicable, and agrees to do so at least two 
     
    
 
 
 
       
 
 
      
 
 
 
  
 
           Section 2. Bargaining unit employees who work in 
           continuous operations will be assigned to a rotating tour 
           of duty. Two (2) consecutive days off outside the basic 
           workweek will be granted each employee if possible. 
 
           Section 3. Subject to mission requirements, employees of 
           the bargaining unit whose work situations as determined by 
           their immediate supervisor meet one of the following 
           criteria will be granted a rest period at the worksite or 
           a designated break area not to exceed 15 minutes during 
           each four (4) hours of continuous work: 
 

 

 

Rest periods that presently exist. 
Hazardous work or that which requires continual 
and/or considerable physical exertion and rest 
periods are needed for protection of employee's 
health. 
Where there is a need to reduce the accident rate by 
removal of fatigue potential. 
Where the work is in confined spaces or in areas 
where normal personal activities are restricted. 
Where an increase in, or maintenance of, high quality 
and/or high quantity production is traceable to the 
rest period. 

 

Any dispute between employees and supervisors as to the 
establishment of a rest break is grievable under the 
negotiated grievance procedure. 
 
Section 4. Rest periods will not be a continuation of the 
lunch period, nor may they be granted immediately after 
the beginning of the tour of duty or immediately prior to 

 

 

 

 

the end of the tour of duty. If the period from the 
beginning of the daily tour of duty to the scheduled lunch 
period is less than four (4) hours, a rest period will be 
granted only in unusual circumstances. 

Section 5. In those work areas where rest periods have 
been authorized, the immediate supervisor will determine 
if such rest periods are to be taken at the same time by 
all employees or on an individual basis at staggered times 
because of workload requirements. The Union recognizes 
that when there are work requirements of an urgent nature 
to be met, the immediate supervisor may determine that an 
otherwise authorized rest period will not be granted to an 
employee or group of employees. 
 
Section 6. Subject to mission requirements, employees of 
the bargaining unit whose work situations as determined by 
their immediate supervisor meet one of the criteria 
described in Section 3 of this Article will be granted a 
rest period not to exceed 15 minutes during the middle of 
each consecutive four (4) hour period of overtime worked. 
 
Section 7. 

Thirty (30) minutes duty free non-paid lunch periods 
normally will be granted when an employee has been 
scheduled for six (6) hours or more. 
When the Employer requires work in lieu of a scheduled 30 
minute duty free non-paid lunch period, the employee will 
be compensated appropriately. 
The Union recognizes that mission support requirements of 
the Employer may necessitate an employee's remaining at 
his/her worksite during the lunch period. When such is the 
case, a lunch period of not more than 20 minutes shall be 
granted and shall be considered time worked for which 
compensation shall be allowed. When this on-the-job lunch 
period is in effect, bargaining unit employees must spend 
the lunch period time in close proximity to their work 
stations so as to be immediately available to perform their 
assigned duties. 

Section 8. 

Night Differential is paid to all FWS employees in the 
amount of seven and one-half percent premium pay when the 
majority of scheduled, non-overtime hours fall between 3:00 
p.m. and midnight. The rate is ten percent of a majority of 
hours worked between 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. When the 
scheduled hours of work meet the majority rule, premium pay 
is for the entire shift, exclusive of any overtime hours. 
Night Differential is paid to all Pay Banded employees in 
the amount of ten percent premium pay for all scheduled, 
non-overtime hours that occur between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 
a.m. 
Night Differential is paid to all Caregiving Personnel Pay 
Program employees in the amount of ten percent premium pay 
for all scheduled, non-overtime hours that occur between 

6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. 

 

Section 9. An employee whose personal religious beliefs 
require that he or she be absent from work during 
scheduled work periods may elect, with the prior approval 
of his/her Employer, to establish an alternate work 
schedule for this pay period, as long as a paid overtime 
situation does not apply. 

 
                               Article 17--Overtime 
 
           Section 1. The Employer has the right to assign overtime 
           work. When the Employer has determined both that overtime 
           work is necessary and that it will be performed by 
           qualified bargaining unit employees, overtime assignments 
           shall be distributed as equally as practicable among all 
           qualified employees within the occupation in the 
           organizational element for which overtime has been 
           authorized. In no case will overtime work be assigned to 
           any employee as a reward or punishment. 
 
           Section 2. The Employer agrees to maintain records of 
           overtime work performed by bargaining unit employees. Such 
           records shall be made available to the employee and 
           his/her Union representative upon request. (Appendix B) 
 
           Section 3. The Employer shall notify affected bargaining 
           unit employees of the necessity to perform overtime work 
           promptly after establishing firm overtime requirements. 
           Every reasonable effort will be made by the Employer to 
           provide this notice at least 24 clock hours prior to the 
           scheduled period of overtime. However, the parties agree 
           that emergency situations as determined by the Employer 
           and unforeseen mission support requirements may preclude 
           such advance notice of overtime work. However, the 
           Employer agrees through careful planning to keep such 
           overtime scheduling to a minimum, being mindful of the 
           hardship to the employee. 
 
           Section 4. A bargaining unit employee may decline a 
           scheduled overtime assignment if the Employer determines 
           that another qualified employee is available and willing 
           to perform the work and that the full work requirements 
           can be met. If a bargaining unit employee is relieved of 
           an overtime assignment under the provisions of this 
           section, the hours of overtime declined will be marked on 
           the overtime record as declined, but will be considered as 
           overtime hours worked for the purpose of determining 
           equity of overtime distribution within the organizational 
           unit. 
 
           Section 5. In cases of emergency as determined by the 
           Employer, where bargaining unit employees are not informed 
           of overtime assignments prior to the start of their daily 
           tour of duty, and are expected to work more than two (2) 
           hours beyond the end of their daily tour of duty, an 
           opportunity to obtain food at their expense, and a 

           non-paid 30 minute lunch period to consume it at the 
           worksite will be provided as determined by the Employer. 
           The non-paid lunch period shall be free from all duty 
           obligations, unless the nature of the work is such that it 
           cannot be interrupted, in which case the Employer will 
           allow the food consumption to be on a work status basis. 
           Employees expected to work more than two (2) hours of 
           unscheduled overtime before or beyond their normal tour of 
           duty will be afforded an opportunity (where practicable) 
           to obtain food. Employees will be permitted to notify 
           their homes when required to work unscheduled overtime. 
           When it is impractical for the employee to make such an 
           attempt personally, management agrees that supervisors 
           will endeavor to do so on behalf of the employee upon 
           request. 
 
           Section 6. The Employer and the Union recognize that pay 
           for overtime work will be in accordance with all 
           applicable laws and regulations to include the Fair Labor 
           Standards Act. 
 
                          Article 18--Leave and Absences 
 
           Section 1. Annual leave shall be earned in accordance with 
           applicable laws and regulations. While the taking of 
           annual leave is a right of the employee, the Employer 
           retains the right to determine when such annual leave will 
           be taken. For this reason, the use of annual leave is 
           subject to the approval of the employee's supervisor. 
           Subject to workload requirements and availability of 
           personnel, the Employer agrees to allow bargaining unit 
           employees to schedule at least one (1) week of vacation 
           leave per calendar year in order to allow the employee an 
           opportunity for rest and relaxation away from the 
           worksite. All annual leave requests for vacation purposes 
           shall be submitted by individual employees to their 
           supervisor on or about January 31st of each year. Every 
           reasonable attempt consistent with workload requirements 
           will be made by the Employer to adhere to the established 
           vacation schedule. The parties recognize that unforeseen 
           emergencies may arise which require the use of annual 
           leave which has not been previously scheduled or approved. 
           In such cases the employee will request approval for 
           emergency annual leave directly from his/her immediate 
           supervisor as soon as possible but not later than two (2) 
           hours after the start of the employee's tour of duty if 
           the employee has not reported to his/her worksite. When 
           the first-line supervisor is unavailable, the employee 
           will refer the request to the supervisor in charge, or to 
           the next level of supervision and then through the chain 
           of command as necessary. The employee will state the 
           nature of the emergency and the expected duration of 
           his/her absence, and approval or disapproval of such 
           requests by the supervisor will be determined on an 
           individual case basis. An employee may be required by 
           his/her supervisor to furnish evidence that the emergency 
           absence was bona fide if the supervisor reasonably 

           suspects abuse. The parties agree that employee requests 
           for short periods of annual leave, other than for 
           scheduled vacations or emergency purposes, will be made to 
           the immediate supervisor as far in advance of the planned 
           absence as possible, but in no case later than the close 
           of the workday preceding the planned absence. Annual leave 
           is accrued from the date of employment, but may not be 
           used for a period of 90 days. Annual leave accrues for all 
           hours in a pay status up to 40 hours per week. The 
           percentage of accrual is based on creditable NAF or 
           military service, and accrues as follows: 
 

Less than three years of creditable service is 5% of hours 
worked per pay period, or 13 days per year for a full time 
employee. 
Three to 15 years of creditable service is 7½% of hours 
worked per pay period, or 20 days per year for a full time 
employee. 
Over 15 years of creditable service is 10% of hours worked 
per pay period, or 26 days per year for a full time 
employee. 

 
           Section 2. Sick Leave. 

 
Sick leave shall be earned in accordance with applicable 
laws and regulations. Regular Full and Part Time employees 
earn sick leave to be credited to their account at the 
beginning of each pay period, at the rate of 5% of the 
total hours in a pay status up to a maximum of 40 hours per 
week. The minimum accrual is ¼ hour in a pay period. Sick 
leave is earned from the first pay period of employment and 
may be used when earned. Flexible and temporary employees 
have no entitlement to sick leave. There is no maximum for 
accumulation of sick leave. Both the Employer and the Union 
encourage the careful use and conservation of sick leave by 
all employees, and the Union agrees to support the 
installation sick leave program which is designed to 
achieve these goals. Sick leave may be used when the 
employee receives medical, dental, or optical examination 
or treatment; is incapacitated for the performance of 
duties by sickness, injury, or pregnancy and confinement; 
is required to give care and attendance to a member of 
his/her immediate family who is afflicted with a contagious 
disease; or when the employee's presence on the job would 
jeopardize the health of others because of exposure to a 
contagious disease. Sick leave must be requested by an 
employee from his/her immediate supervisor not later than 
tour of duty. When the first-line supervisor is unavailable 
the employee will refer the request to the supervisor in 
charge, or to the next level of supervision and then 
through the chain of command as necessary. The employee 
will explain the reasons for the absence and the estimated 
duration of the absence. Any absence in excess of three (3) 
consecutive workdays will require the employee to furnish a 
medical certificate. Normally, the employee's own 
certification will be sufficient to support a charge to 
sick leave for absences of three (3) working days or less. 

When the supervisor has reason to believe that the use of 
sick leave has been abused by a bargaining unit employee, 
this may lead to the issuance of a leave restriction 
letter. Once an employee has been issued a leave 
restriction letter, the supervisor will review the 
restrictions every four (4) months. If the supervisor 
believes the employee's sick leave problem has been 
corrected, the leave restriction letter will be withdrawn. 
An employee's failure to correct the problem will result in 
the supervisor's extension of the leave restriction letter 
for periods of four (4) months thereafter. 
Additionally, per the Family Friendly Leave Act an employee 
may use his/her sick leave to care for a family member as a 
result of illness; injury; pregnancy; childbirth; or 
medical, dental or optical examination or treatment, or for 
travel to and attendance at the funeral or memorial service 
of a family member, including pre-funeral 
gatherings/ceremonies. Sick leave may be granted under this 
Act only when supported by evidence administratively 
acceptable. Normally, employee certification is 
permissible; however, supervisors may require medical or 
other appropriate documentation to support absences in 
excess of three (3) consecutive workdays. The decision to 
grant or deny sick leave requests rests with the 
supervisor, as it does with traditional sick leave 
requests. Employees may use up to forty (40) hours of sick 
leave per leave year for family care and/or bereavement 
purposes, and may use up to 64 additional hours per leave 
year for these purposes (for a total of 104 hours), 
provided the amount of sick leave remaining in their 
account would not fall below 80 hours. Family members under 
this Act are defined as: a spouse, or the spouse's parents; 
children (including adopted children), and their spouses; 
parents; brothers and sisters and their spouses; and any 
individual related by blood or affinity whose close 
association with the employee is the equivalent of a family 
relationship. 

 
           Section 3. The Employer agrees that an absence covering 
           pregnancy and confinement shall be treated the same as any 
           other medically certified temporary disability. An absence 
           for maternity purposes is chargeable to sick leave, annual 
           leave, or leave without pay, as appropriate. Requests for 
           sick leave due to pregnancy and confinement must be 
           supported by a medical certificate. An employee who plans 
           to return to work following pregnancy and confinement 
           shall be offered continued employment in her position or a 
           like position, unless termination is otherwise required by 
           expiration of appointment, by Business Based Actions, or 
           for similar reasons unrelated to the maternity absence. 
           For such an employee, the total period of absence for 
           maternity reasons will be based on appropriate medical 
           opinion and the Employer's authorization of appropriate 
           leave, consistent with workload and staffing requirements. 
           A male employee may request annual leave, sick leave, or 
           leave without pay for purposes of assisting or caring for 
           his minor children or the mother of his newborn child 

           while she is incapacitated for maternity reasons. The 
           amount of leave authorized by the supervisor shall depend 
           upon the circumstances of the individual case. Similar 
           requests for annual leave, sick leave, or leave without 
           pay for those employees who become adoptive parents will 
           also be evaluated by the Employer on a case-by-case basis. 
 
           Section 4. Employees who are members of the National Guard 
           or Reserves will earn military leave in accordance with 
           applicable laws and regulations. This military leave may 
           be used for active duty or active duty for training. 
           Military leave is not authorized for periods of inactive 
           duty training (usually weekend drills). 
 
           Section 5. If otherwise in a duty status, bargaining unit 
           employees who are registered voters will be granted 
           excused absence to vote in national, state, and local 
           elections, in accordance with applicable regulations. 
           Requests for excused absence to donate blood, perform 
           emergency rescue or protective work, or participate in 
           other worthwhile activities will be processed in 
           accordance with applicable regulations. When operations 
           are interrupted by events beyond the control of the 
           Employer, such as, but not limited to, national 
           emergencies, natural disasters, extreme climatic 
           conditions, breakdown of equipment, and power failures, it 
           is within the discretion of the Employer to close all or 
           part of the installation for short periods, and to grant 
           administrative leave to affected employees in accordance 
           with applicable regulations. 
 
           Section 6. Bargaining unit employees whose services are 
           not required by the Employer on a holiday established by 
           federal statute or Executive Order will be excused from 
           duty without charge to leave, and those excused will be 
           entitled to holiday benefits in accordance with 
           appropriate law and regulations. Determination of the day 
           to be treated as a holiday shall also be made by the 
           Employer in accordance with applicable law and 
           regulations. 
 
           Section 7. The Employer and the Union recognize that 
           normally the granting of leave without pay (LWOP) is a 
           matter of administrative discretion, and all requests for 
           LWOP shall be considered in accordance with applicable 
           laws and regulations. LWOP shall be granted upon request 
           to employees otherwise entitled to LWOP who are disabled 
           veterans in need of medical treatment, or are members of 
           the Reserves or National Guard, in order to perform 
           military training duties. In addition, under the 
           provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act, bargaining 
           unit employees may request up to 12 workweeks of unpaid 
           leave during any 12-month period for the following 
           purposes: 
 

The birth of a child of the employee and the care of 
such child; 

The placement of a child with the employee for 
adoption or foster care; 
The care of a spouse, son, daughter, or parent of the 
employee who has a serious health condition; or 
A serious health condition of the employee which 
makes the employee unable to perform the essential 
functions of his/her position. 

 
           The employee normally must provide notice to the Employer 
           of his/her intention to request unpaid leave under the 
           provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act not less 
           than 30 days before the requested leave is to begin. The 
           Employer may require medical documentation to support 
           unpaid leave taken under the Family and Medical Leave Act. 
 
           Section 8. The Employer and the Union agree that it is the 
           civic responsibility of bargaining unit employees to 
           respond to calls for jury duty and witness service. Court 
           leave for jury duty and witness service shall be 
           authorized in accordance with applicable law and 
           regulations. 
 
           Section 9. Tardiness and brief absences from duty of less 
           than one (1) hour may be excused without charge to leave 
           at the option of the supervisor when reasons appear to be 
           adequate to the supervisor. When an employee is frequently 
           tardy or otherwise absent from duty when the reasons are 
           not adequate to the supervisor, such absences and 
           tardiness will be charged to annual leave or absence 
           without approved leave (AWOL), as appropriate. Each case 
           of tardiness or brief absence from duty shall be 
           considered on its own merits by the Employer. 
 
              Article 19--Competitive and Non-Competitive Referrals, 
                Details, Temporary Promotions, Limited Tenure, and 
                                 Emergency Hires 
 
           Section 1. Competitive Referrals. 
 

In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 215-3. 
Subject: Employment, and Department of the Army 
Modernization Guide, the parties agree that competitive 
vacancy announcements will be publicized in the NAF 
Personnel Office, Human Resources Division Job Information 
Office, Channel 3, and the Missile Ranger and will be open 
for a minimum of three days. All vacancy announcements 
should contain the following: 

 

Title, series, and grade. 
Salary per hour for all positions. 
Location of position. 
Work schedule and differential information if 
Brief statement of duties. 
Brief statement of qualifications required, 
including length, type, and level of experience. 
Closing date, or no closing date. 
Where to apply. 

Statement "Department of Army Nonappropriated 
Fund Instrumentalities are Equal Opportunity 
Employers". 
A statement that the position has potential for 
promotion if such is the case. 
A statement of whistleblower protection against 
reprisal. 
 

Applications will be dated upon receipt. The NAF Personnel 
Office will make a prompt determination, in accordance with 
the appropriate qualification requirements, regarding the 
basic eligibility of each applicant for the position to be 
filled. A notation indicating eligibility or ineligibility, 
the initials of the rate, and the date of rating will be 
recorded on the application of each candidate. 
Applications will be referred to the selecting official on 
DA Form 4985-R (NAF Referral and Selection List). The 
intention is to apply minimum qualification requirements 
and refer all qualified candidates. 

 
           Section 2. Non-Competitive Referrals. 
 

In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 215-3. 
Subject: Employment, and Department of the Army 
Modernization Guide, the parties agree that current or 
former NAF employees employed with a NAFI service may apply 
non-competitively for any NAF position at the same or lower 
grade or level held during the six (6) month period. 
Temporary positions, such as summer hires, after an initial 
competitive placement, may be appointed non-competitively 
in subsequent years. 
The Army Air Force Exchange Service is considered a NAFI, 
and AAFES employees will be given the same considerations. 
Non-Competitive is filling a NAF position without 
competition with a current or former NAF employee who is 
eligible for reassignment, reinstatement, or reemployment. 
Selection of a Non-Competitive applicant is not mandatory.              

 
           Section 3. Procedures. 
 

Applicants must complete a NAF Application, DA 3433, and 
attach proof of past employment periods. 
Applications will remain active for a period of six months. 
Applicants may provide an update every six (6) months to 
their original applications. 
Applicants need only provide one application to cover any 
and all NAF positions they wish to be considered for. 

 
           Section 4. Details. 

 
Positions may be filled by: 

 

Details to higher graded positions not in excess of 60 
days. Employees who are improperly detailed to higher 
graded positions for a period in excess of 60 days will be 
allowed retroactive temporary promotions with back pay to 
begin on the 61st day of the detail. Employees may not be 

detailed longer than 60 days to perform duties that have 
not been evaluated as to grade. Prior to the 60th calendar 
day of such details, the duties involved must evaluated, 
and proper action taken in accordance with this policy. If 
the evaluation is made after the 60th day, the employee 
must be promoted retroactively effective from the 61st day. 
Details to positions at the same or lower grade/level may 
be used to meet a temporary need or to assess an employee’s 
capability to performs, and interest in, the duties and 
responsiblities of the position. Although no time 
limitations are imposed on these actions, if the detail was 
for the purpose of assessing the employee’s performance in 
the position a supervisor should normally be able to make 
that assessment within a 120 day period. 

 
           Section 5. Temporary Promotions. Temporary promotions may 
           be effected on either a competitive or non-competitive 
           basis. (See AR 215-3). No time limitations are imposed on 
           the length of competitive temporary promotions. 
 
           Section 6. To meet special work requirements that will 
           last in excess of one year, but are known to be 
           non-permanent and will cease to be needed upon completion 
           of a project or a projected period of time, a position may 
           be designated as Limited Tenure. This term is added only 
           to a regular appointment as, either RFT-Limited Tenure, or 
           RPT-Limited Tenure. A clarifying remark as to the expected 
           expiration of the appointment will be entered on the DA 
           Form 3434. Limited Tenure employees have the same 
           entitlement to leave and benefits as do all regular 
           employees. Limited tenure employees do not serve 
           probationary periods. 
 
           Section 7. Emergency Hires. In emergencies where delay in 
           filling a position would cause serious disruption to the 
           work, action may be taken to fill a position 
           non-competitively for a period not longer than 30 days. 
           Such an emergency flexible appointment must be fully 
           justified and have approval of the NAF Personnel Office. 
           By the end of the 30 day period, the appointment must be 
           terminated. In unusual circumstances, the installation 
           commander may approve extension not to exceed 30 
           additional days. 
 
                              Article 20--Selection 
 
           Section 1. In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 
           215-3, and Department of the Army Modernization Guide, the 
           parties agree that employees will be referred and selected 
           using the following preferences: 
 

Selection Preference for all competitive recruitment 
actions for positions NF-3 and below, to include all 
prevailing rate and CC positions, will be given according 
to the following priorities: 

 
                  Spouse Employment Preference(SEP) (See Section 2) 

                  Involuntarily Separated Military (ISM) 
                  Current and Former NAF Employees 
                  Outside Applicant-Veteran 
                  Outside Applicant-Non-Veteran 
 
           Section 2. Spouse Preference Definition. 
 

A military spouse applying and referred for positions at 
NF-3 and below, or equivalent in representative rate hourly 
positions, will be given preference for selection. Spouse 
employment preference does not apply to non-competitive 
placement actions. A spouse is defined as the wife or 
husband of an active duty military member of the Armed 
Forces, including the Coast Guard, and a member of the 
National Guard or Reserves on active duty. To be eligible 
for preference, the spouse must have been married to the 
sponsor before the sponsor received official PCS orders. 
An eligible spouse must request consideration at the time 
of initial application to the servicing NAF Personnel 
Office. Eligibility will be verified by means of the 
sponsor’s PCS orders. Eligibility time period begins 30 
days before the military sponsor’s reporting date at the 
new duty location and continues during the entire tour, or 
until acceptance or declination of an interview or position 
offer (NAF or APF) at the grade for which preference as 
been requested. Preference is also terminated on placement 
into any continuing position in the new duty location; that 
is, one expect to continue for at least one (1) year, 
whether or not preference was applied. A flexible position 
is considered to be a continuing position. MACOM commanders 
may limit eligibility during the last six (6) months of the 
tour. Eligible spouses will be given preference in the same 
commuting area as that of the new duty station of the 
sponsor, or in surrounding localities to which a spouse has 
determined he or she is willing to travel on a daily basis.              

 
                           Article 21--Job Descriptions 
 
           Section 1. NA, NL, NS, and CC (Crafts and Trades) 
           employees are entitled to a job description and NF (Pay 
           Banded) employees are entitled to Standard Position Guides 
           which meets the standards of adequacy established by 
           applicable Office of Personnel Management and Department 
           of Army regulations. Job descriptions shall be reviewed 
           annually by management and employees for accuracy. 
 
           Section 2. If a bargaining unit employee questions the 
           accuracy of his/her job description, he/she will use the 
           negotiated grievance procedure contained in Article 11 to 
           resolve this issue. 
 
           Section 3. A bargaining unit employee who requests a 
           review of the title, series, grade or pay category of 
           his/her job is encouraged to present a position 
           classification complaint orally before filing an appeal, 
           although not required to do so. If the employee elects to 
           present the complaint orally, appropriate 

           supervisor/representatives of the Employer will discuss 
           the matter with the employee and explain the basis upon 
           which the job has been evaluated. The employee may have a 
           Union representative present at this discussion if 
           requested. If the employee is satisfied with the 
           discussion, no further action will be taken. If the 
           Employer/supervisor determines that there are specific 
           questions concerning the employee's official job 
           description which might affect the title, series, grade, 
           or pay category of the position, the Employer may conduct 
           an audit of the bargaining unit employee's job in order to 
           determine the proper classification. A Union 
           representative may be present during a job audit of the 
           classification issues under contention, subject to the 
           following: 
 

The accuracy of the official job description must 
have been questioned, and 
The employee must have specifically requested in 
writing the presence of a representative. 

 
           Regardless of whether the Employer conducts a job audit of 
           the employee's position, any changes in pay category, 
           title, series, or grade resulting from the oral 
           classification complaint will be made promptly and the 
           case closed. If the bargaining unit employee is 
           dissatisfied with the results of his/her oral 
           classification complaint, he/she may submit a position 
           classification appeal in writing. However, since the pay 
           band system does not use discrete standards to allocate 
           duties to a pay level, classification appeals are not 
           applicable to the system. Questions or complaints relative 
           to the allocation of a position will be handled 
           exclusively through the negotiated grievance procedures. 
           NA, NS, NS, and CC employees may appeal a position 
           classification through channels up to OPM. 
 
                  Article 22--Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) 
 
           Section 1. The Employer agrees it shall not discriminate 
           regarding employment or conditions of employment because 
           of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or 
           handicapping conditions in accordance with applicable laws 
           and regulations. It has been and shall remain the policy 
           of the Employer that employment practices of the Employer 
           will demonstrate full adherence to the letter and spirit 
           of federal government policy and laws guaranteeing equal 
           employment opportunity to all persons. The Employer and 
           the Union agree to cooperate in providing equal 
           opportunity in employment for all persons and in promoting 
           the full realization of equal employment opportunity. 
 
           Section 2. Allegations of discrimination have been 
           excluded from coverage by the provisions of the negotiated 
           grievance procedure in Article 11. Bargaining unit 
           employees may pursue allegations of discrimination through 
           the statutory EEO complaint system. 

 
           Section 3. An installation Affirmative Action Plan 
           insuring equal employment opportunity in all aspects of 
           employment and personnel practices will be published by 
           the Employer. Two (2) copies of the published Affirmative 
           Action Plan will be distributed to the Union. 
 
           Section 4. A unit employee discussing a problem of alleged 
           discrimination with an EEO Counselor may have a Union 
           representative present, if the employee so desires. 
 
           Section 5. The Employer has the right to administer 
           appropriate discipline in instances where any individual 
           has been properly found to have engaged in discriminatory 
           acts in accordance with applicable law and regulation. 
 
                   Article 23--Performance Plans and Appraisals 
 
           Section 1. In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 
           215-3, Department of the Army Modernization Guide, 
           Department of the Army Pay Band System Guide, and NAF 
           Policy, Aug 95, the parties agree that employees on a 
           Regular Full or Part Time appointment, and Payband 
           employees on a Flexible appointment will receive an annual 
           performance plan and appraisal in conjunction with their 
           birthdate. 
 
           Section 2. Performance Plans are required for all Regular 
           Full, Part Time, and Payband Flexible employees. 
           Performance plans should contain a minimum of three (3) 
           major elements, with the majority titled Critical 
           Elements, and at least one (1) Non-Critical Element. 
           Within each major element a breakdown of tasks or duties 
           should incorporate measurable factors of quality, 
           quantity, timeliness, and manner of performance. Factors 
           should be set at the satisfactory or met level. 
 
           Section 3. Performance Ratings are required for all 
           Regular Full, Part Time, and Payband Flexible employees. 
           Ratings will be completed on DA 3612R, provided by the NAF 
           Personnel Office to supervisors the month prior to the 
           employee’s birth month. Appraisals should be completed 
           within ten (10) days after the employee’s birthdate. The 
           completed original Performance Appraisal will be given to 
           the employee, and a copy furnished to the NAF Personnel 
           Office. Ratings of Outstanding or Unsatisfactory should 
           include justification. Ratings may not be completed until 
           a minimum of 120 days of service have been completed. If 
           the employee has served less than 120 days under his or 
           her current supervisor, the annual rating may be prepared 
           by the current supervisor after consultation with the 
           previous supervisors, or may be delayed until the end of 
           the 120 day period. The five rating options are listed 
           below: 
 

Outstanding. All elements have been rated exceeded. 
Written justification is required. 

Excellent. A majority of elements have been rated 
exceeded, and no other element is rated less than 
met. 
Satisfactory. All elements are rated at least met. 
Minimally Satisfactory. One or more non-critical 
elements are rated not met. 
Unsatisfactory. One or more critical elements are 
rated not met. Written justification is required. 

 
           Section 4. Probationary Appraisals are required for all 
           newly appointed Regular Full and Part Time employees. The 
           probationary period is one (1) year for all new employees. 
           Up to six (6) months credit is given for an initial 
           Flexible appointment converted to Regular Full or Part 
           time provided the employee does not change positions. The 
           initial Annual Performance Appraisal will not be scheduled 
           earlier than 120 days after completion of the Probationary 
           Appraisal. 
 
           Section 5. Any performance based actions taken by the 
           Employer based upon an employee’s failure to meet 
           established levels of performance will be in accordance 
           with the procedures set forth in Article 24, Performance 
           Based Actions, of this agreement, and applicable laws 
           regulations, and policies. 
 
                      Article 24--Performance Based Actions 
 
           Section 1. In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 
           215-3, and Department of the Army Modernization Guide, the 
           parties agree that this section will provide procedures 
           for effecting nondisciplinary involuntary personnel 
           actions based upon failure to meet established levels of 
           performance. Performance based actions include reduction 
           in pay rate (NF employee only), reduction in grade or pay 
           level, and separation. 
 
           Section 2. Communication-Counseling. Performance 
           evaluation should be an ongoing process which includes 
           periodic communication between supervisors and employees 
           as reflected in AR 215-3. Counseling employees about 
           specific performance deficiencies as soon as they arise 
           and offering appropriate assistance can often prevent more 
           serious performance problems. It is important that 
           employees be given a reasonable chance to demonstrate 
           acceptable performance. The determination of the 
           appropriate length of time for an employee to improve 
           should be determined on a case by case basis. Individual 
           supervisors are in the best position to understand the 
           work requirements of their unit and the nature of the 
           employee’s duties and responsibilities and, therefore, to 
           exercise judgement in determining how to reasonably 
           structure the employee’s opportunity to improve. 
 
           Section 3. Procedures. 
 

Any time that an employee fails to meet established 
levels of performance, the supervisor must notify the 
employee in writing of the specific elements for which 
performance is unsatisfactory. The employee will also 
be informed of the level of performance that must be 
attained and the time that will be allowed to provide a 
reasonable opportunity to achieve the required level of 
performance. A tool that in some cases can help in 
accomplishing this, is a formal, written performance 
improvement plan. Such a plan provides a structured 
means of identifying the areas of deficiency and laying 
out a plan for improving the employees’ performance. In 
all cases, the employee should be given every 
assistance to achieve acceptable performance. 
An employee, whose performance has been determined to 
be unsatisfactory after being afforded an opportunity 
to improve, is entitled to a 30 calendar day advance 
notice of the proposed action to be taken. The notice 
will include a statement identifying the performance 
requirements which the employee failed to meet and what 
action was taken to assist the employee in improving. 
The notice will also inform the employee of the 
specific action proposed to be taken, the right to 
reply orally and in writing to the proposed action 
within ten calendar days with the assistance of a Union 
representative; and that a written decision on the 
proposed action will be issued.  The written decision 
on the proposed action will be issued by the Employer 
to the employee as soon as practicable following 
expiration of the reply period. The written decision 
will notify the employee of the specific action to 
be taken and the effective date of the action. The 
employee also will be informed in the decision of the 
right to grieve the action under the negotiated 
grievance procedures with the assistance of a Union 
representative, and the applicable time limit to submit 
such a grievance. 

 
                              Article 25--Discipline 
 
           Section 1. In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 
           215-3, the parties agree that discipline is the 
           responsibility of the Employer. Maintenance of discipline 
           will be achieved, to the maximum extent possible, through 
           cooperation, fairness, good supervisory practices, and 
           adherence to reasonable standards of conduct. Responsible 
           judgement must be exercised in selecting among the variety 
           of disciplinary penalties which may be imposed. The 
           seriousness of the offense, the past records of the 
           employee, the circumstances contributing to the offense, 
           the probable effectiveness of the penalty in stimulating 
           improvement, the reasonableness of the penalty, the time 
           period since a previous-like offense, and the influence of 
           the penalty on the morale of other employees, all must be 
           considered in reaching a decision on the action to be 
           taken. In all cases, disciplinary actions should be 
           initiated on a timely basis. If an employee has been 

           disciplined for an offense, no further disciplinary action 
           will be proposed against that employee for the same 
           offense. Action may be proposed for a similar or repeated 
           offense. In addition, prior offenses may be used in 
           support of a charge to show patterns of conduct or 
           behavior and prior disciplinary action may be used in 
           determining penalty for a current offense. 
 
           Section 2. Informal Counseling Actions. 

 
Oral Admonitions. An oral admonishment should be employed 
as promptly as may be necessary in situations of a minor 
nature involving violation of a rule, regulation, standard 
of conduct, safety practice, or authoritative instruction. 
An employee’s supervisor is responsible for maintaining 
discipline in his/her organization and, therefore, is the 
most appropriate individual to admonish a subordinate 
employee. To be most effective, it should be conducted 
promptly, in private, and in an informal manner without 
embarrassing the employee in front of his co-workers. The 
employee should be advised of the specific infraction of 
breach of conduct, exactly when it occurred, and be 
permitted to explain his/her conduct or act of commission or 
omission. 
              

Insure that all relevant facts are known to both 
parties. 
Afford the employee the opportunity to explain 
the basis for his/her actions, and  
Advise the employee that disciplinary action is 
under consideration. Since disciplinary action 
could result from this interview, the employee 
must be provided the opportunity to be accompanied by 
a Union representative if he/she is a member of a 
bargaining unit and requests representation. The 
meeting will be conducted within a reasonable amount 
of time, typically two work days. If the employee 
presents a satisfactory explanation for his or her 
conduct, the matter will be closed and the employee 
so advised. If the employee fails to provide a 
reasonable explanation for the misconduct, the 
supervisor will prepare a memorandum for the 

 
           Section 3. Formal Types of Disciplinary Actions. 
           Disciplinary actions may consist of written reprimands, 
           suspensions from duty without pay, or separation for 
           cause. 
 

Letters of Reprimand. 
When a supervisor considers that formal 
disciplinary action may be required to correct 
misconduct on the part of a subordinate employee, 
the supervisor should obtain all available 
information concerning the alleged misconduct. 
The supervisor should then discuss the incident 
with the employee to: 

 

 

 

 

 

record of the meeting and initiate disciplinary 
action. 

When a determination is made that a formal written reprimand 
is necessary for the reasons cited above, the supervisor will 
prepare the letter of reprimand in draft and submit it to the 
NAF Personnel Office for technical review. The NAF Personnel 
Office will assure that the letter of reprimand is consistent 
with governing regulations and local disciplinary policy and 
practices before delivery of the letter to the employee. The 
letter of reprimand will be prepared for the signature of the 
appropriate supervisor and will contain the following: 

A description of the offense, in sufficient detail, 
to enable the employee to understand fully the 
violation, infraction, conduct, or offense for which 
he/she is being censured. Such specifics as time, 
place, dates, and events should be included in 
support of the incident giving rise to the 
disciplinary action.  In the event the reprimand is a 
follow-up of previous offenses and the action is 
considered as a continuation of constructive 
discipline, the former incidents will be restated. 
Additionally, if the employee failed to take any 
remedial action previously agreed to, that fact will 
be included. 

 
In cases where it is determined to beadvantageous for 
preventive purposes, a warning that future misconduct may 
result in considering a more severe disciplinary measure will 
be included.  If appropriate, advice regarding assistance 
available to the employee for remedial purposes or as a means 
to help overcome the deficiency and avoid future recurrence. 
Additionally, the employee will be informed regarding any 
specific action required. That the reprimand will remain in 
the employee’s OPF for a specified period (no more than two 
(2) years) unless sooner removed by the employee’s 
supervisor.  Information regarding the right to request a 
review of the action within ten (10) calendar days after 
delivery of the letter of reprimand (see 4 below). 

A formal written reprimand is nonpermanent in nature and must 
be withdrawn from the official personnel folder:                       

Upon expiration of the period specified in the letter 
of reprimand. 
Upon separation of the employee from the rolls of the 
employing activity. 
Upon determination through an appropriate 
adjudicatory procedure that the reprimand is 
unwarranted and must be withdrawn. 
Upon determination by management that the reprimand 
should be withdrawn. 
At the time that a reprimand is withdrawn from 
the official personnel folder, a review should be 
made of personnel and supervisory records and files, 
and all references to the reprimand removed.                           

 

 

A review of the issuance of a letter of reprimand will be 
made under the following circumstances: 
 

In the event an employee requests a review of the 
issuance of a letter of reprimand the request must be 
made within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the 
letter. This request must be presented to the 
supervisor next above the issuing supervisor orally 
or in writing. The right to representation will be 
the same as stated in Article 11. The review process 
will not include calling of witnesses unless 
determined by the reviewing official to be essential 
to a full and fair review of the action. The review 
decision will be issued promptly in writing and will 
address all issues raised in the request for review. 
If dissatisfied with the written decision of the 
reviewing official, the bargaining unit employee 
may submit a grievance in writing to the next level 
supervisor within ten (10) calendar days following 
receipt of this decision.                            

Suspensions. 
 
A suspension is a period of time authorized by AR 215-3 
during which an employee is placed in a temporary non-duty, 
non-pay status as a disciplinary measure. The supervisor of 
an employee is the individual primarily responsible for 
initiating suspensions. Notices of proposed suspension and 
notices of decision to suspend an employee will be prepared 
and signed by the supervisor and upon technical review by 
the NAF Personnel Office, delivered to the employee. 
An advance notice of the proposed suspension will be issued 
as far in advance of the action as feasible, but it must be 
issued in all ordinary cases in time to allow for an 
advance notice period of ten (10) calendar days. 
The notice of a proposed suspension must: specify the 
earliest date the proposed suspension will begin and its 
duration; state all reasons supporting the proposed action 
specifically and in detail; inform the employee of the 
right to review any material relied on as a basis for 
taking the proposed suspension and where it can be 
reviewed; advise the employee he/she may reply in person, 
in writing, or both; and inform the employee that he/she 
may be accompanied by a chosen representative when 
presenting an oral reply. It will also inform him/her that 
the reply will be considered in reaching a decision on the 
proposed action if filed within the five (5) calendar day 
period following receipt of the notice. It will identify 
the person to whom to address a reply (usually the 
supervisor who signed the notice). 
If the employee makes a timely reply, it will be given 
consideration prior to any decision to effect the proposed 
action. If a decision is made that the proposed action will 
not be effected, the employee will be notified in writing. 
If the decision is to effect the proposed suspension, a 
notice of decision to effect the suspension will be 

delivered to the employee on or before the time the 
suspension becomes effective. DA Form 3434 (Notification of 
Personnel Action) is not prepared for suspensions. 
The notice of decision to effect the suspension must inform 
the employee of the reasons for the action, and of the 
right to file a grievance, provided it is filed not later 
than 15 calendar days after the effective date of the 
suspension. The reasons for the action stated in the letter 
of decision must be the same as those stated in the notice 
of proposed action, unless it has been determined that one 
or more of the reasons are no longer considered as 
justifying the decision. The decision may not be based on a 
reason which was not included in the notice of proposed 
action. 
 
Separation for cause. Separation for cause will be taken 
only for such reasons as will promote the efficiency of the 
Service. Notice of proposed separation for cause and 
subsequentdecision letters will be prepared and signed by the 
supervisor and upon technical review by an official of the 
servicing NAF Personnel Office, delivered to the employee. 
An employee against whom a separation for cause is proposed 
will be given at least 30 calendar days’ advance notice of 
the proposed action with the following exception. The full 
30 days’ advance written notice in not required for a 
separation when the circumstances are such that retention 
of the employee is an active duty status during the notice 
period may be injurious to the employee, his or her fellow 
workers , or the general public; may result in damage to 
property or loss of funds; or because the nature of the 
employee’s offense may reflect unfavorably on the public 
perception of the Army. Under these circumstances, when the 
situation required immediate action, the employee may be 
placed in a non-duty status with pay (within the employee’s 
basic workweek). The advance notice of proposed separation 
will provide not less that five (5) calendar days for the 
employee to reply and such time as would be reasonable 
under the circumstances for the separation to be effective. 
When the full 30 day advance notice period is required, the 
notice will state that the proposed action will be made 
effective not earlier that 30 days from the date of receipt 
of the Letter of Proposal. If the full 30 day advance 
notice period is not required, the notice will state the 
specific date on which the proposed action will become 
effective. 
In computing the advance notice period, the day the notice 
is delivered and the effective date of the separation will 
not be counted in the 30 day notice period. 
A Separation for Cause will be effective at midnight on the 
date specified in the notice of decision, unless a 
different time is specified in the notice. 
The notice of proposed Separation for Cause will: 
 
State specifically and in detail the reasons supporting the 
proposed action, including names, dates, times, and places. 
Include a detailed statement on any part of the employee’s 
past record which is considered as contributing to the 

 

severity of the proposed action. Inform the employee of the 
right to review the material relied on as a basis for taking 
the proposed separation and where is can be reviewed. 
Inform the employee regarding the right to reply orally, in 
writing, or both with or without representation, and to 
submit affidavits in support of the reply. 
Identify the person to receive the written and/or oral 
reply. Specify the time limit for submission of the reply, 
which will normally not exceed 15 calendar days. 
Inform the employee regarding official time permitted 
without loss of pay or charge to leave for preparation of 
the reply. 
Inform the employee that the reply will be considered before 
a final decision is made to effect, modify, or cancel the 
proposed action and that he/she will be notified in writing 
of the final decision. 

The notice of proposed action should be delivered personally 
to the employee and, if possible, a written acknowledgment of 
receipt obtained. If the notice must be delivered by mail, 
provision must be made to obtain a receipt of delivery. When 
the NAFI issuing the notice has made every reasonable effort 
to effect delivery and it is evident that the employee acted 
to evade timely delivery or acceptance of the notice, the 
notice is valid as far as the issue of delivery is concerned. 
If the employee chooses to reply to the advance notice 
orally, he/she will be afforded an opportunity to be heard 
and may be accompanied by a representative if desired. 
He/she will be permitted to make any presentations felt 
relevant and which he/she believes should be considered 
before the final decision. The right of making a reply in 
person does not include the right to a hearing with 
testimony from witnesses for both sides of the controversy, 
but is an opportunity for refutation of the advance notice. 
When a reply is made in person, a written summary will be 
made of the personal reply and, if possible, the employee’s 
signature will be added to it as an indication that he/she 
agrees with the accuracy of the reply. 
When a reply is received from an employee against whom a 
separation is proposed, the official rendering the decision 
will give it careful, detailed, and objective consideration. 
The proposed action may be withdrawn, or amless severe one 
substituted without issuing a new notice. 
The action decided upon may not be based on reasons not 
specified in the initial notice of the proposed action. If 
any additional reason or reasons are used to support the 
action, a new notice of proposed action is required which 
will specify a new advance notice period. 
The notice of decision will be reviewed for technical 
compliance prior to dispatch by the servicing NAF Personnel 
Office. It will be dated and in writing and will be issued 
promptly after the decision is made. When a decision to 
separate is being conveyed, a DA Form 3434 effecting the 
separation will be enclosed with the notice of decision 
Each notice of decision will include the information 
indicated in (a), (b), and (c) below, and when the proposed 
action is not withdrawn, in (d), (e), and (f) below. 

Include the date the notice of proposed action was issued. 
Identify each reason for the action which was included in 
the notice of proposed action and clearly identify each 
reason relied on to support the action and which were not 
sustained. 
State the decision. 
Inform the employee he/she has the right to grieve the 
action under the negotiated grievance procedure at Step 3, 
that the grievance must be filed before the expiration of the 
ten (10) calendar day period immediately following the  
effective date of the action. 
Furnish the exact name and address of the person or office 
to which the grievance should be addressed. 
Specify the date on which the action will be effective.                

 

Section 3. Records. 
 
Location of Records. Letters of Reprimand and employee’s 
reply will be placed on the left side of the employee’s 
Official Personnel Folder. A Letter of Reprimand will not 
be placed in the Official Personnel Folder when a grievance 
has been initiated until a decision is made on the grievance. 
Letters of Reprimand may be removed from the personnel folder 
at any time the supervisor feels the employee has made 
sufficient progress to warrant such removal. Letters of 
decision to suspend or separate an employee from his/her 
position for disciplinary reasons, notices of proposed 
actions and replies will be retained as permanent records on 
the right side of the employee’s Official Personnel Folder. 
Release of Information. An exact copy or an extract of the 
actual language of a written reprimand, notice to suspend, 
or notice to separate for cause normally should not be 
released to sources other than authorized Federal or NAFI 
officials without the written consent of the person who 
received the disciplinary action. However, upon a 
determination of legitimate interest and upon a determination 
that the release would not be prohibited by law, the reason 
shown on the DA Form 3434 (for a separation for cause) or a 
brief statement of the nature of the offense and the specific 
disciplinary action imposed may be furnished without the 
consent of the employee. An incident which did not lead to 
separation should be of interest only to a Federal or NAFI 
Employer; therefore, the employee’s right to privacy should 
be the paramount consideration in determining whether to 
release information on admonition actions to other employees 
or individuals. In all cases, there should be determination 
that the person requesting the information has a legitimate 
interest in it. For specific guidance refer to AR 340-21, the 
Army Privacy Program. 
Table of Penalties. The penalties for delinquency or 
misconduct are located in AR 215-3. 
 

                              Article 26--Separation 
 
           Section 1. In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 
           215-3, and Department of the Army Modernization Guide, the 
           parties agree that employees may be separated under the 

           following conditions: 
 

Flexible employees may be separated with an advance 
notice of seven (7) calendar days. DA Form 3434 may 
be used to provide notice. Such separations are not 
grievable, (except under Article 11, Section 3p), and 
are taken without prejudice, and do not preclude 
reemployment. 
Limited Tenure employees may be separated prior to 
the projected expiration date with a minimum 14 
calendar day advance notice. No advance notice is 
required upon completion of the projected period. 
Separation of Limited Tenure employees is not 
grievable. 
An employee who fails to report for duty and is 
carried in an AWOL status for three (3) consecutive 
scheduled work days may be separated for abandonment 
of position. No advance notice of any kind is 
required prior to effecting the separation. If the 
employee presents reasons acceptable to the Employer 
for his/her absence, the abandonment of position 
action will be rescinded and the employee restored 
to duty. 

 
                          Article 27--Safety and Health 
 
           Section 1. General. The Employer shall provide safe and 
           sanitary working conditions and equipment in consonance 
           with the standards promulgated under the Occupational 
           Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSHA) and applicable 
           Department of Defense and Department of Army regulations. 
           In consonance with Chapter XVII Title 29, Department of 
           Labor Rules and Regulations, the Employer shall post and 
           keep posted a notice or notices informing employees of the 
           protections and obligations provided for in the 
           Occupational Safety and Health Act. When Union officers 
           and stewards are involved in representation duties, 
           negotiations, or discussions pursuant to this Article they 
           shall be on official time if otherwise in an active duty 
           status. 
 
           Section 2. Safety Inspections. Appropriate personnel as 
           determined by the Employer will inspect all work places at 
           least annually, and upon request of a Union official, to 
           insure compliance with Department of the Army Occupational 
           Safety and Health guidance. A Union representative shall 
           have the right to participate in the inspections on 
           official time. The Union will be provided a copy of these 
           safety inspection reports, consistent with Privacy Act 
           requirements. 
 
           Section 3. The Employer will provide suitable protective 
           clothing, equipment, and safety devices for employees 
           engaged in activities requiring same in consonance with 
           standards promulgated under OSHA and applicable Department 
           of Defense and Department of Army regulations. Repair of 
           issued safety and environmental clothing will be provided 

           by the Employer. Protective clothing and equipment issued 
           to an employee which is in need of repair shall 
           immediately be reported to the employee's supervisor. 
 
           Section 4. The Employer will make every effort in 
           accordance with law and regulation to insure that 
           employees shall not be required to work in an environment 
           which the Occupational Health Office has determined to be 
           unsafe to the continued health of the employees affected. 
 
           Section 5. The Employer will exert efforts to see that 
           employees work safely, and employees will report any 
           observed unsafe or unhealthy conditions to the employee's 
           immediate supervisor. Stewards and other representatives 
           of the Union, in the course of performing their normally 
           assigned responsibilities, are encouraged to observe and 
           report unsafe practices, equipment, and conditions, as 
           well as environmental conditions in their immediate areas 
           which may represent health hazards. The Employer will 
           assure that no restraint, interference, coercion, 
           discrimination, or reprisal will be practiced as a result 
           of an employee's reporting of an unsafe practice or 
           condition. 
 
           Section 6. The Employer shall make every effort in 
           accordance with law and regulation to insure that no 
           employee shall be required to perform any work on a 
           machine or in an area where conditions exist that are 
           unsafe or detrimental to health as determined by either 
           the Safety Division or the Occupational Health Office. The 
           Employer also will make every effort in accordance with 
           law and regulation to insure that no employee shall be 
           required to work alone or without a co-worker in any area 
           which has been identified by the Safety Division as an 
           area in which it is dangerous to work alone. 
 
           Section 7. Employees will promptly report conditions which 
           may be detrimental to their health and safety. If there is 
           any doubt regarding the safety of existing working 
           conditions, the problem will be referred to the 
           appropriate Safety or Occupational Health official for a 
           ruling. When it is not possible to obtain Employer 
           concurrence beforehand, an employee may decline to perform 
           his or her assigned task because of a reasonable belief 
           that under the circumstances the task poses an imminent 
           risk of death or serious bodily harm coupled with 
           reasonable belief that there is insufficient time to seek 
           effective redress through normal hazard reporting and 
           abatement procedures. In such case the employee will 
           notify the Employer as soon as possible. The employee may 
           grieve the decision of the Safety Division or the 
           Occupational Health Office within fifteen (15) days of the 
           decision, or if no decision has been rendered, within 
           thirty (30) days of the incident, at Step 3 of the 
           negotiated grievance procedure. 
 
           Section 8. When a health and safety hazard is identified, 

           appropriate disposition of identified hazards will be 
           accomplished in accordance with OSHA, 29 C.F.R 1910 and 
           1960, and Department of Army regulations. Posting of 
           notices of hazard will be accomplished in accordance with 
           29 C.F.R. 1910 and 1960. 
 
           Section 9. On-the-job Injury or Illness. Employees will 
           report to their supervisor as soon as possible regarding 
           all injuries or illnesses which occur on the job. If the 
           employee is physically unable to do so, this may be 
           accomplished by a Union representative or personal 
           representative. 
 

In case of serious on-the-job injury or illness or death of 
an employee, the employee's supervisor shall notify the 
appropriate Union steward as soon as practicable. 
Upon becoming aware that an employee under his/her 
supervision has suffered an on-the-job injury, the supervisor 
will insure that the employee receives prompt medical 
treatment as required. The employee then will be counseled by 
his/her supervisor on the procedures for filing claims for 
benefits under the Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities 
Act. The supervisor will insure to the extent possible that 
forms are properly completed. A Union steward may be in 
attendance for this counseling. 
Additional counseling will be provided by a representative 
of the NAF Personnel Office if the employee desires to make 
an appointment for this purpose. The Employer and the Union 
agree that bargaining unit employees and their supervisors 
should cooperate in promptly and correctly completing 
appropriate report forms and any other necessary documents, 
and will forward them to the NAF Personnel Office. The 
Employer shall process and promptly forward to the Office of 
Workers' Compensation Programs employee and Employer 
documentation required when an employee sustains an on-the-
job injury or contracts an occupational disease and elects to 
file a claim. 
Every reasonable effort will be made by the Employer to 
provide work assignments to employees who have been injured 
on the job or otherwise disabled, when it has been determined 
by the Employer's medical authority that they are able to 
resume work. The Employer agrees that where differences of 
medical opinion occur, necessary consultation between the 
Employer's and employee's medical authorities will be 
undertaken, to include consultation with medical specialists 
as required. 

 
           Section 10. Health Services and Preventive Medicine. The 
           Employer agrees to provide immunization against 
           communicable diseases to all employees requesting it where 
           it is authorized by the Health Clinic Commander. As 
           required by proper medical authority, complete physical 
           checkups will be provided for employees engaged in work 
           that is considered to be hazardous to their health or 
           safety. The extent and frequency of the exams will be 
           determined by the appropriate medical authority. Employees 
           are authorized all available services and benefits 

           provided for in applicable law and regulation. 
 
           Section 11. Training. Although employees are basically 
           qualified to perform their duties, the Employer recognizes 
           the need for specific training and update training to 
           promote employee safety and a minimum loss of staff hours 
           due to preventable injuries. The Employer agrees to 
           consider training as a means to insure that all bargaining 
           unit employees are informed of safe working habits and 
           practices appropriate to their jobs. Additionally, 
           supervisors shall instruct employees in safe working 
           habits, practices, and procedures with regard to specific 
           job assignments and shall insure that manuals and 
           regulations relating to safety and health are available to 
           all employees 
 
           Section 12. In the event that the parties agree that a 
           particular work situation may warrant hazard pay 
           differential, but is not covered by an existing hazard pay 
           category established by the Office of Personnel 
           Management, action will be taken to request establishment 
           of an additional category. 
 
                     Article 28--Employee Assistance Program 
 
           Section 1. The Employer agrees to conduct its Employee 
           Assistance Program in accordance with the requirements of 
           applicable laws and regulations. 
 
           Section 2. The Employer and the Union both recognize 
           alcoholism and drug abuse as illnesses which are 
           treatable, and both agree that employees with these 
           problems will be offered assistance to overcome them 
           through the Employee Assistance Program. The parties also 
           recognize that medical or behavioral problems of an 
           employee and/or members of his/her immediate family, 
           including alcoholism and drug abuse, can interfere with an 
           employee's job performance, attendance, or conduct. 
           Employees with these illnesses shall receive the same 
           careful consideration and respect as employees who have 
           other illnesses. It is also recognized that it is in the 
           best interests of both the Employer and the Union to 
           assist bargaining unit employees in recovering from these 
           illnesses. The Union therefore agrees to support the 
           Employee Assistance Program of the Employer. 
 
           Section 3. Participation by bargaining unit employees in 
           all aspects of the Employee Assistance Program is 
           voluntary. No unit employee will have his/her job security 
           or promotional opportunities jeopardized by his/her 
           request for counseling or referral assistance, except as 
           may be limited by applicable law. The confidential nature 
           of records of unit employees enrolled in the Employee 
           Assistance Program will be preserved in the same manner as 
           medical records. These records will not become part of the 
           employee's Official Personnel Folder. 
 

           Section 4. The Employer is concerned with the 
           accomplishment of agency missions and the essential need 
           to maintain employee productivity and has no interest in 
           employee's private lives. However, the Employer and the 
           Union agree that when alcohol or drug abuse or other 
           personal problems of the employee interfere with the 
           efficient and safe performance of the employee's assigned 
           duties, reduce dependability, or result in unacceptable 
           conduct, this becomes the legitimate concern of the 
           Employer. 
 
           Section 5. The Employee Assistance Program has been 
           established by the Employer to provide non-disciplinary 
           procedures by which an employee with alcohol or other drug 
           problems, or personal difficulties is offered counseling, 
           referral, and rehabilitation assistance in order to return 
           his/her job performance, attendance, or conduct to 
           acceptable levels. However, the parties agree that 
           continued unsatisfactory work performance, attendance, or 
           conduct related to these problems, in cases where the 
           employee refuses rehabilitation assistance, or fails to 
           achieve satisfactory results in rehabilitation, will 
           result in the Employer taking corrective action in 
           accordance with law and applicable regulations. 
 
           Section 6. Supervisors of bargaining unit employees will 
           be alert to any deterioration in the performance, 
           attendance, or conduct of assigned employees, and will 
           document specific instances in which a bargaining unit 
           employee's work performance, attendance, or conduct fails 
           to meet minimum standards, or instances in which the 
           employee's pattern of performance appears to be 
           deteriorating. If the Employer reasonably believes that 
           the employee's deficiencies are related to alcohol, drug, 
           or personal problems, the Employee Assistance Program 
           office may be consulted for advice and recommendations. 
           The Employer then will conduct an interview with the 
           employee which focuses on noted deficiencies in 
           attendance, performance, or conduct, and will advise the 
           employee of the existence of the Employee Assistance 
           Program. This interview will emphasize work deficiencies, 
           and no attempt will be made to diagnose the personal or 
           health problems of the employee. If the employee 
           voluntarily acknowledges a personal or health problem 
           which is adversely affecting work performance and requests 
           the services of the Employee Assistance Program, the 
           Employer will refer the employee, and will advise him/her 
           that the Union is available to assist the employee in this 
           effort. The employee shall be granted Union representation 
           at the initial counseling session upon request. 
 
           Section 7. If the employee declines to participate in the 
           Employee Assistance Program, and performance, attendance 
           or conduct deficiencies continue, the supervisor will 
           advise the employee that he/she has a choice of either 
           entering the Employee Assistance Program and seeking 
           assistance, or accepting the consequences of disciplinary 

           or adverse action for continuing deficiencies. 
 
           Section 8. If the employee enters the Employee Assistance 
           Program, counseling, referral, and rehabilitation 
           assistance will be provided in accordance with applicable 
           regulations. The initial counseling session with a 
           designated Employee Assistance Program representative 
           shall be conducted on official duty time. The employee may 
           be granted sick leave, annual leave, or leave without pay 
           for any subsequent medical treatment and rehabilitation 
           under the Employee Assistance Program. 
 
           Section 9. Initiation of disciplinary and adverse actions 
           for performance, attendance, or conduct deficiencies 
           related to alcohol or other drug abuse will be postponed 
           for ninety (90) consecutive calendar days only for 
           employees who enroll in and satisfactorily progress in the 
           Employee Assistance Program, unless retention in a duty 
           status might result in damage to Government property or 
           personal injury to the employee or others. Information 
           pertaining to the employee's enrollment and progress in 
           the program can be obtained only with the employee's 
           consent. Suspension of disciplinary or adverse actions for 
           90 days will apply only to employees who have a signed 
           consent form (DA Form 5017-R) on file. If the employee 
           refuses rehabilitation assistance, or upon completion of 
           the 90 day period fails to achieve satisfactory 
           performance, attendance, or conduct, appropriate adverse 
           action may be taken. Previously initiated adverse actions 
           in which the final decision letter has not been issued to 
           the employee will be postponed upon the employee's 
           enrollment in the Employee Assistance Program, provided 
           the employee has not previously refused rehabilitation 
           assistance. Such adverse action may be continued if, at 
           the end of the 90 consecutive calendar days rehabilitation 
           period, job performance, attendance, or conduct is 
           unsatisfactory, or if at any time during the 90 day 
           rehabilitation period the employee refuses such 
           assistance. Once an adverse action has been initiated 
           against an employee who previously refused rehabilitation 
           assistance or did not successfully complete 
           rehabilitation, the proposed adverse action need not be 
           delayed as a result of the employee's subsequent request 
           for rehabilitation. 
 
           Section 10. As required, the Employer will publicize the 
           Employee Assistance Program, to include assurances of 
           confidentiality for participants. Supervisory and employee 
           training regarding the Employee Assistance Program will be 
           presented when deemed necessary by the Employer. Union 
           officers and stewards may attend such training offered to 
           supervisors. 
 
           Section 11. The Employer agrees that employees seeking 
           assistance for problems other than alcohol or drugs will 
           be entitled to assistance in accordance with the 
           provisions of AR 600-85. 

 
                           Article 29--Incentive Awards 
 
           Section 1. The parties agree to promote and support the 
           Incentive Awards and Suggestions programs of the Employer 
           as specified in AR 672-20. The Union shall demonstrate 
           this support by encouraging participation through the 
           submission of suggestions through proper channels, and by 
           distributing or displaying publicity material which may be 
           provided by the Employer. 
 
           Section 2. The Employer agrees to publicize the Incentive 
           Awards Program, and to insure that all awards are 
           presented in appropriate ceremonies. The Employer will 
           schedule a presentation of an award and the award will be 
           presented by an appropriate official in the presence of 
           co-workers. 
 
           Section 3. The Employer and the Union agree criteria set 
           forth in AR 672-20, AR 215-3, and WSMR written charter for 
           Incentive Awards will be utilized. 
 
                               Article 30--Training 
 
           Section 1. The Employer and the Union agree that training 
           and development of employees in the bargaining unit 
           covered by this agreement are matters of importance and 
           mutual concern. Consistent with its needs and subject to 
           budget and travel limitations, the Employer will conduct a 
           training and development program for bargaining unit 
           employees in accordance with applicable laws and 
           regulations. 
 
           Section 2. The Employer will identify training needs of 
           bargaining unit employees and, consistent with its needs 
           and subject to budget and travel limitations, will 
           endeavor to provide training or retraining opportunities 
           which will improve individual job-related skills and will 
           contribute to overall mission accomplishment. To assist in 
           the identification of these training needs, supervisors 
           and bargaining unit employees will discuss training 
           requirements at least once annually. 
 
           Section 3. The Union will encourage bargaining unit 
           employees to keep abreast of changes occurring in their 
           occupations, and to improve their career potential through 
           self-development efforts. 
 
           Section 4. A bargaining unit employee who is required to 
           provide on-the-job training to an employee may request 
           assistance from his/her supervisor in order to accomplish 
           the scheduled workload in a timely fashion. 
 
                 Article 31--Labor-Management Relations Training 
 
           Section 1. It is agreed that the Employer will, consistent 
           with the workload demands, approve the request of duly 

           elected or appointed officers and stewards of the Union 
           for leave for the purpose of attending Union conventions, 
           conferences, seminars, and training sessions. Absences by 
           Union officers and stewards for such Union-sponsored 
           activities will be charged to annual leave or leave 
           without pay, as appropriate, when the subject matter and 
           purpose of these meetings are identified by the Employer 
           as being internal Union business. 
 
           Section 2. Where the subject matter and purpose of a Union 
           training session are identified by the Employer as being 
           of mutual concern to the Employer and the employee in 
           his/her capacity as a Union representative, and the 
           Employer's interest will be served by the attendance of 
           the Union representative, administrative leave will be 
           granted by the Employer. The Employer agrees to grant 160 
           hours administrative leave per calendar year to the Union 
           for such training, provided that administrative leave for 
           this purpose shall not exceed 40 hours per 12 month period 
           for each Union representative for such training. 
 
           Section 3. Requests for administrative leave to permit 
           Union officers and stewards to attend a Union-sponsored 
           training session must be made in writing at least two (2) 
           weeks in advance by the Union to the Employer. Such 
           requests will contain information about the purpose and 
           nature of the training, location and dates of the meeting, 
           and an agenda. 
 
                           Article 32--Contracting Out 
 
           Section 1. The Employer will meet and discuss with the 
           Union any review of a function for contracting out within 
           the bargaining unit, prior to any such review. The 
           Employer will accept and consider input and 
           recommendations from the Union regarding data to be 
           included in the Performance Work Statement (PWS), prior to 
           its finalization, and will consider the views of the Union 
           regarding other aspects of the contracting out study 
           throughout the process. Throughout the contracting out 
           decision process the Employer will provide to the Union 
           material requested and allowable for release under 
           government regulations and the Freedom of Information Act. 
 
           Section 2. The Employer agrees that any contracting out of 
           work normally performed by bargaining unit employees will 
           be in accordance with applicable laws. 
 
           Section 3. The Employer will notify the Union promptly 
           after a final decision has been made on contracting out of 
           work performed by bargaining unit employees. When a 
           decision is made to contract out work performed by 
           bargaining unit employees, the Employer will negotiate 
           with the Union with respect to the impact of the 
           contracting out on bargaining unit employees, and will 
           make reasonable efforts to minimize the adverse 
           consequences of its decision on those employees. The 

           Employer agrees to consider retraining and reassignment 
           for those bargaining unit members who might otherwise be 
           separated under Business Based Actions (BBA) procedures, 
           consistent with the remaining mission requirements and 
           staffing needs of the Employer. 
 
                        Article 33--Business Based Actions 
 
           Section 1. In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 
           215-3, Department of the Army Modernization Guide, and NAF 
           Business Based Actions Policy, 10 May 95, the parties 
           agree that reductions and realignments will be given top 
           management attention in order to decrease adverse effects 
           on employees and on the future effectiveness of the 
           activity involved. Careful planning is necessary to lessen 
           the impact, prepare employees, and to forestall 
           administrative problems caused by hasty actions. Good 
           employer-employee relationships require that management 
           show concern for the employee’s problems, morale, and 
           economic security. The Employer agrees to inform the Union 
           of an impending BBA affecting bargaining unit employees as 
           far in advance of the BBA notices as practicable. Impact 
           bargaining shall commence upon request of the Union in 
           accordance with Article 10, Negotiations. 
 
           Section 2. Business Based Actions (BBA) apply to all 
           regular employees, and also those flexible employees who 
           have been on the rolls of the NAFI for three continuous 
           years. The Competitive Area for BBA actions will be 
           limited to the activity in the BBA, e.g., Community Club, 
           Billeting, etc. Due to the distance involved, the Stallion 
           Range Center eating facility is in a separate competitive 
           area from the main installation Community Club. A 
           Competitive Level is comprised of all employees who have 
           the same pay plan, occupational series, and the same 
           grade/level in a specific activity. All employees to be 
           affected will be informed simultaneously. This will 
           normally be done by written notice. An advance group 
           meeting is recommended so that employees may ask questions 
           and receive answers. The Union President will be notified 
           of any such meeting. In no case will a BBA be used to 
           separate, demote, or reduce pay or hours for inadequate 
           performance, or disciplinary reasons. The NAF Personnel 
           Office will attempt to place an excess employee into any 
           vacant position for which he or she is qualified. There is 
           no authority to displace or bump another employee. BBA 
           actions include, but are not limited to: 
 

Reduction in pay rate. This action may only be taken 
on NF employees and requires minimum seven (7) 
calendar day advance written notice for both regular 
and flexible employees. 
Reduction in pay level/grade. An NF employee may be 
reduced in pay level and an NA, NL, or NS employee 
may be reduced in grade only in consonance with a 
change to a lower graded position. A minimum advance 

written notice of seven (7) calendar days is 
required. 
Reduction in scheduled hours of work. Regular part 
time employees will be given a minimum of seven (7) 
calendar days advance written notice. Flexible 
employees will be given a minimum 24 hours advance 
verbal notice. 
Change in employment category. An advance minimum 
written notice of 30 days will be given when a 
regular full time employee is changed to regular part 
time or flexible, when a regular part time employee 
is changed to flexible, or when a regular employee is 
changed to seasonal. 
Furlough. Furlough is a non-duty, no-pay status, and 
is appropriate only for regularly scheduled 
employees. During a furlough period no type of leave, 
except leave without pay, may be used. Advance 
written notice will be provided that is equal to the 
length of the furlough up to a maximum of 30 days. 
For furloughs in excess of 30 days, a 30 day notice 
is required. 
Separation. Regular employees will receive a minimum 
30 days advance written notice. Flexible employees 
will receive a minimum seven (7) calendar day advance 
written notice. 
 
              

           Section 3. Procedures. 
 

When it becomes necessary to reduce or realign the work 
force, the head of the activity will obtain the concurrence 
of the Directorate of Community Activities (DCA) prior to 
initiating any actions. The determination of the positions 
to be affected, and the type of personnel actions required 
will be made by the head of the activity. Such decisions 
will consider the cause of the reduction or realignment, 
whether it is a temporary or permanent situation, the 
importance to the activity of the various functions, and 
the changed mission or organization. In some cases 
identification of specific positions or functions may be 
sufficient to determine which employees will be affected. 
Managers will prepare and submit a DA 4017 for each 
position to be affected to the NAF Personnel Office. In 
those cases in which more than one employee is assigned to 
the same position by title and grade, a competitive level 
list will be developed. 
The ranking on a competitive level list will include 
credits for performance, seniority, training, and overall 
value, as follows:              

One (1) point for each year (or percentage of a 
year) of DOD NAF service (includes AAFES). 
The employee’s last two (2) performance (not 
probationary) appraisals dated within the last 
five years with the points as:                           

Outstanding Rating = 3 points 

 

 

Excellent Rating = 2 points 
Satisfactory Rating = 1 point (In the absence of a 
performance rating a Satisfactory rating will be 
presumed) 

One thru five points for training (five being the 
highest possible).  One thru five points for overall 
value (five being the highest possible).                               

 
           Section 4. Severance Pay. 
 

 

 

 

              
The NAF Personnel Office will forward rating forms to the 
activity manager who must rate the training and overall value 
points for each affected employee in order to complete the 
Competitive Level List. Upon completion of the Competitive 
Level List, the NAF Personnel Office will prepare BBA letters 
for the activity manager’s signature and distribution to the 
employees within the required notice period. 

Entitlement. Regular employees who have completed at least12 
consecutive months of regular service will receive severance 
pay when as a result of a BBA:             

A regular full time appointment is changed to regular 
part time and the employee declines the part time 
appointment and is separated. 
A regular full time or part time appointment is 
changed to flexible. 
A regular full or part time appointment is changed to 
seasonal and the employee declines the seasonal 
position and is separated. 
The rate of pay is reduced and the employee declines 
the reduced rate and is separated. 
An employee is separated. 
An employee who is to be furloughed for a period 
greater than 60 days declines the furlough and is 
separated. 

Reemployment Priority List. The NAF Personnel Office will 
maintain a reemployment priority list of regular employees 
who were separated by BBA for one (1) year from date of 
separation. When a regular vacancy occurs at the same level 
and duties of their former position, the employee will be 
non-competitively offered the position. If more than one (1) 
person is eligible, the one with the earliest date of 
separation will be offered the position. An employee 
separated from a regular full time position will be deleted 
from the Reemployment Priority List if he/she accepts or 
declines a regular full time position with a representative 
rate the same or higher than that of the position from which 
he/she was separated. Under the same criteria, a former part 
time employee will be removed from the list when he/she 
accepts or declines a regular full or part time position. A 
person on the list will also be offered priority 
consideration for positions in other NAFI’s if the vacancy is 
being filled on competitive basis. DOD activities in the 

commuting area may exchange reemployment priority lists to 
effect this requirement. 

 
           Section 5. Grievance Procedures. Employees have a right to 
           grieve at Step 3 within ten (10) calendar days after 
           effective date of the BBA if they believe that regulations 
           and procedures were not properly applied. An employee may 
           not grieve management’s decision to conduct a BBA. 
 
                        Article 34--Reemployment Priority 
 
           Section 1. The Employer agrees that in a Business Based 
           Action (BBA) of bargaining unit employees Reemployment 
           Priority Lists will be fully utilized. The primary aim of 
           this program will be to find a position in NAF for each 
           affected bargaining unit employee commensurate with that 
           employee’s skills and experience. The NAF Personnel Office 
           maintains a Reemployment Priority List for the White Sands 
           area only. 
 
           Section 2. The NAF Personnel Office will maintain a 
           reemployment priority list of regular employees who were 
           separated by BBA for one (1) year from date of separation. 
           When a regular vacancy occurs at the same level and duties 
           of their former position, the employee will be 
           non-competitively offered the position. If more than one 
           (1) person is eligible, the one with the earliest date of 
           separation will be offered the position. An employee 
           separated from a regular full time position will be 
           deleted from the Reemployment Priority List if he/she 
           accepts or declines a regular full time position with a 
           representative rate the same or higher than that of the 
           position from which he/she was separated. Under the same 
           criteria, a former part time employee will be removed from 
           the list when he/she accepts or declines a regular full or 
           part time position in the competitive area.. A person on 
           the list will also be offered priority consideration for 
           positions in other NAFI’s if the vacancy is being filled 
           on competitive basis. DOD activities in the commuting area 
           may exchange reemployment priority lists to effect this 
           requirement. 
 
                            Article 35--Smoking Policy 
 
           Section 1. The Union agrees to support the established 
           smoking policy of the Employer, and to solicit the 
           cooperation of bargaining unit members (both smokers and 
           non-smokers) in complying with the policy. Smoking is 
           prohibited in the Employer's facilities, and those who 
           smoke must do so outside, or in a designated smoking area. 
 
                              Article 36--Pay Policy 
 
           Section 1. In accordance with Department of the Army, AR 
           215-3, Department of the Army Modernization Guide, 
           Department of the Army Pay Band System Guide, and NAF Pay 
           Policy, 1 Oct 96, the parties agree that employees will 

           adhere to the following policies: 
 
           Section 2. General Policies and Procedures. 
 

Appointment Categories 
Employees hired under Flexible appointments are guaranteed 
no hours. Flexible hours may vary from day to day, and the 
employee may be called into work with little notice. 
Employees hired under Regular Part Time appointments are 
guaranteed from 20-39 hours per week. Guaranteed hours will 
be stated at time of employment, and will be shown on the 
personnel action. Part Time employees are eligible for most 
of the Regular employee benefits. A booklet for Regular 
employee benefits will be provided upon appointment or 
Employees hired under Regular Full Time appointments are 
guaranteed 40 hours per week, and are entitled to the full 
range of NAF Benefits. A booklet for Regular employee 
benefits will be provided upon appointment or conversion. 
 
Pay Systems 
The Federal Wage System includes crafts and trades employees 
paid by the locality rate based on the yearly Wage Survey. 
The positions are designated as NA, NL, and NS, and include 
waiters, food service workers, bartenders, laborers, 
custodial workers, etc. 
The FWS contains Grades 1 through 19, and each grade level 
contains five steps. Initial employment will begin at Step 
1, and after completing the required waiting periods (WIGI’s) 
will be received automatically from NAF Financial Services 
beginning with the next full pay period after the waiting 
period is complete. The waiting periods for step increases 
are as follows: 

Step 2 after 130 workdays (six months working full 
time) 
Step 3 after an additional 390 workdays (18 months 
working full time) 
Steps 4 and 5 after an additional 520 workdays (two years 
working full time) 
                                       

 
Yearly cost of living increases will be in June of each year. 
The increase amount is based on the Local Wage Survey 
completed in April. Promotions from one grade to the next 
higher will be a minimum increase of no less than the 
difference between steps 4 and 5 of the grade from which the 
employee is being promoted. Pay is adjusted in the new grade 
to the step that will equal or exceed this difference. 
Promotion of NA employees will typically be competitive, with 
the exception of trainees. 
Overtime for NA employees is one and one-half times the basic 
rate of pay for all hours over eight hours per day, and over 
40 hours per week. NS employees are supervisors, and 
therefore exempt from FLSA. 
Night Differential is paid to all FWS employees in the amount 
of seven and one-half percent premium pay when the majority 
of scheduled, non-overtime hours fall between 3:00 p.m. and 
midnight. The rate is ten percent of a majority of hours 

 

worked between 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. When the scheduled 
hours of work meet the majority rule, premium pay,is for the 
entire shift, exclusive of any overtime hours. 
Sunday Premium Pay is available to Regular Full Time 
employees. Premium pay consists of twenty-five percent of the 
basic rate of pay for the entire tour of scheduled non-
overtime hours, with a maximum of 16 hours.                             
Holiday Pay is available to all regularly scheduled 
employees. Regular Part Time employees with a basic 
workweek of less than five days have no entitlement to 
holiday leave except when a holiday falls on a scheduled 
workday. The employee must be in a pay status immediately 
before or after the holiday. Holiday pay consists of two 
times the basic rate of pay for non-overtime hours worked, 
not to exceed eight hours.                             

The NAF Pay Band System includes clerical, administrative, 
sales, technical, and professional positions. The positions 
and assistants, sales clerks, business managers, cashiers, 
etc. 
The Pay Band System contains Levels 1 through 6, but does not 
have steps. Yearly cost of living increases will be in June 
of each year for NF Level 1 & 2, and the minimum of level 3. 
The increase amount is based on the Local Wage Survey yearly 
cost of living increase will be in January based on the 
General Schedule.                            
Promotions from one level to the next higher will be a 
minimum of five percent. Promotion of NF employees will 
typically be competitive, except trainees. 
Overtime for NF employees is one and one-half times the 
per pay period. 
Night Differential is paid to all Pay Banded employees in the 
amount of ten percent premium pay for all scheduled, non-
overtime hours that occur between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. 
Sunday Premium Pay is available to all Regular Full Time 
employees. Premium pay consists of twenty-five percent of 
the basic rate of pay for non-overtime hours. 
Holiday Pay is available to all regular employees. The 
employee must be in a pay status immediately before or after 
the holiday. Holiday pay consists of two times the basic rate 
of pay for scheduled non-overtime hours worked. 
The Caregiving Personnel Pay Program includes all Child Care 
positions. The positions are designated as CC. 
The Caregiving Personnel Pay Program contains Pay Bands 1 and 
2. Under Pay Band 1 are Levels 2 and 3, and under Pay Band 2 
is Level 4. 
Yearly cost of living increases will be in January based on 
the General Schedule. Reassignment from Level 2 to Level 3  
will be a minimum of six percent. 
Promotions from Pay Band 1 (Level 3) to Pay Band 2 (Level 4) 
will be a minimum of six percent. Promotion of CC employees 
will typically be non-competitive due to trainee levels. 
Overtime for CC employees is one and one-half times the basic 
rate Night Differential is paid to all Caregiving Personnel 
Pay Program employees in the amount of ten percent premium 
pay for all scheduled, non-overtime hours that occur between 
6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. 

Sunday Premium Pay is available to Regular Full Time 
employees. Premium pay consists of twenty-five percent of the 
basic rate of pay for scheduled non-overtime hours, with a 
maximum of 16 hours. 
Holiday Pay is available to all regular employees. The 
employee must be in a pay status immediately before or after 
the holiday. Holiday pay consists of two times the basic rate 
of pay for scheduled non-overtime hours worked. 
 

                              Article 37--Retirement 
 
           Section 1. All Regular Full and Part Time bargaining unit 
           employees will be allowed to participate in existing 
           retirement plans at the activity. 
 
                        Article 38--Group Insurance Plans 
 
           Section 1. All Regular Full and Part Time bargaining unit 
           employees will be allowed to participate in existing group 
           health and life insurance plans at the activity. 
 
                        Article 39--Duration of Agreement 
 
           Section 1. When this agreement has been signed by the 
           parties, it shall be submitted to the Defense Civilian 
           Personnel Management Service (DCPMS) for approval in 
           accordance with 5 U.S.C. 7114(c). The agreement shall 
           remain in effect for a period of three (3) years from the 
           date of its approval by the DCPMS, or the 31st day after 
           it has been signed by the parties, if the agreement has 
           been neither approved nor disapproved by that date. It 
           shall be automatically renewed for three (3) year periods 
           thereafter unless either party shall notify the other 
           party in writing not more than 105 calendar days nor less 
           than 60 calendar days prior to the termination date or any 
           subsequent anniversary date of its desire to renegotiate 
           the agreement. It is agreed that if such notice to 
           renegotiate has been given, this agreement shall remain in 
           full force and effect in order to provide the parties an 
           opportunity to renegotiate the contract. Any amendments or 
           supplements that may be subsequently negotiated shall 
           remain effective concurrent with the basic agreement. 
 
           Section 2. Amendments and supplements to this agreement 
           may be negotiated by mutual consent of the parties after a 
           reasonable period of time from date of approval of the 
           basic agreement, or may be negotiated at any time when 
           such revisions are required by changes in applicable laws 
           or the regulations of appropriate authorities. 
 
           Section 3. Within a reasonable period of time after a 
           change in applicable laws or the regulations of 
           appropriate authorities which affect the provisions of 
           this agreement, the party requesting negotiation will 
           notify the other party in writing of the necessity to 
           amend or supplement the agreement, citing the pertinent 
           law or regulation and the article(s) of this agreement 

           affected. When such notice is given, representatives of 
           the Employer and the Union will meet in accordance with 
           Article 10, Negotiations, to negotiate the requested 
           amendment(s) or supplement(s). Amendments and supplements 
           will become effective on the date of approval by the 
           DCPMS, or on the 31st day after signing by the parties, if 
           they have neither been approved or disapproved by DCPMS. 
 
 

