Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

40

Language English

Country United States

State

NH

Union AFT (American Federation of Teachers) AFL-CIO

Local AFT/FPE Local  #4831, Nashua Public Library Staff Federation

Librarians 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency City of Nashua, New Hampshire
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 1993

EndYear 1996

Source

http://www.aft.org/research/models/contracts/fpe/nashua.htm

Original_format HTML (unitary)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

 
City of Nashua, New Hampshire and the Nashua Public Library Staff Federation, AFT, 
FPE, #4831,  
 
ARTICLE 1  
AGREEMENT  
 

Agreement, made and entered into as of the day of , 1993, by and between the 
City of Nashua, New Hampshire (hereinafter called the "City") and the Nashua Public 
Library Staff Federation, AFT, FPE, #4831, (hereinafter called the "Union").  
 
 
ARTICLE 2  
RECOGNITION  
 

The City hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representative of 

the library employees as certified by the PELRB of New Hampshire for all lawful 
purposes pursuant to New Hampshire RSA 273-A, and agrees to comply therewith in its 
dealings with the Union.  
Should there be a dispute between an employee and the Union over the matter of an 
employee's Union membership, the Union agrees to hold the City harmless in any such 
dispute.  
 
ARTICLE 3  
DISCRIMINATION  
 

It is agreed that the City will not discriminate on the basis of sex, race, color, 

national origin, religion, lawful political or employee's organization affiliation, age, 
marital status, sexual preference, or non-disqualifying disability, or on any basis 
prohibited by law.  
 
ARTICLE 4  
UNION DUES  
 

An employee, who is a member of the Union, may execute a written authorization 
providing that a portion of their salary representing monthly dues be withheld weekly and 
forwarded to the Union. Upon receiving a properly executive Authorization and 
Assignment Form from an employee, the Local 4831 shall notify the Human 
Resources/Payroll Department to deduct from salary due, the amount authorized, and a 
copy of said form acceptable to Human Resources Department shall be furnished thereto 
in advance of said deduction. A copy of said form is attached.  
 

Each month, a check for the amount of all dues deducted, along with a current list 
of members from whose salary dues deductions have been made, shall be transmitted to 
the Treasurer of the Union.  
 

following events:  
 
                      1. Termination of employment;  
                      2. Transfer out of the bargaining unit;  
                      3. Lay-off;  
                      4. Revocation by the employee of Dues Authorization.  
 

The Unit shall indemnify and save harmless the City of Nashua in and on account 

An employee who executes such authorization form shall continue to have such 

deductions made from their salary during the term the Agreement or until the Human 
Resources/Payroll Department, with a copy to the Union, are notified that the 
Authorization and Assessment Form is being revoked, and the employee thus redraws the 
authority for the deduction of dues. Dues deductions shall be made without cost to the 
employee or the Union.  
 
Dues deductions shall be subordinate to deductions required by law and other 
  
deductions. No deductions shall be made if an employee has insufficient salary in any 
pay period. The City of Nashua shall not be responsible for deducting any arrearage in 
dues owed to the Union by a member, or any special or other assessment by the Union, 
with the exception of the deduction of initiations fees if expressly authorized on the form 
noted above.  
 

Deductions shall automatically terminate upon the occurrence of any of the 

of any and all claims, suits and damages arising out of, or in relation to, such dues 
deductions.  
 
ARTICLE 5  
UNION FEES - GRIEVANCES  

 
Some employees positions are subject to the terms and conditions of this 

agreement by virtue of inclusion in this bargaining unit although the employees have 
chosen not to join the Union. In the event that such an employee wishes to file and/or 
appeal a grievance under the terms of this agreement, the Union will represent such 
employee upon request in exchange for the following fee:  
 
                      Grievance Procedure  
                      Through Step: Fee:  
                      1 Step One and Two  
                      2 are handled without charge.  
                      3 Union Representative at $35.00/hour not to exceed $400.00.  
                      4 Union's share of Arbitrator's bill,  
 

 Union's attorney fees or the cost of other attorney arrangements and union 
representative at $35.00/hour, not to exceed $400.00, for the union representative.  
 
 

 
ARTICLE 6  
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS  
 

It is agreed that the Board will not:  

A.  Dominate or interfere in the formation and administration of the Union;  

B.  Discriminate in the hire, tenure, or the terms and conditions of 

employment of employees or potential employees, for the purpose of 
encouraging or discouraging membership in the Union;  

C.  Discharge, suspend, discipline, or otherwise discriminate against any 

employee because the employee has filed a complaint, affidavit, or 
petition, or given information or testimony on a grievance, as set forth 
in RSA 273-A;  

D.  Restrain, coerce, or otherwise interfere with the Union in the exercise of 

rights grated by statute.  

 It is the intention of all the parties that this article provides that the Union shall 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

enjoy all the rights secured by RSA 273-A.  
 
ARTICLE 7  
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS  
 

Except as otherwise provided for in this agreement, the Board shall have, whether 
exercised or not, all the rights, powers, and authority vested in it by virtue of the Statutes 
of the State of New Hampshire and the Nashua City Charter and Ordinances, now or 
hereinafter enacted including, but not limited to, the rights to:  
 

A.  Control the management and administration of the Nashua Library 

System;  

B.  Hire, promote from within, transfer, assign, retain, layoff, and direct 

employees within the Library System;  

C.  Suspend, demote, discharge, and take other disciplinary actions against 

employees for just cause;  

D.  Issue, modify, and enforce Rules and Regulations which do not 

expressly violate the terms of this Agreement.  

E.  Determine the methods, means, and personnel by which the Nashua 

Library System's operation are to be conducted, as well as to determine 

those operations and to assign duties, hours, and responsibilities to its 
employees accordingly;  

F.  Exercise control and discretion over the Library System, its 

organization, and the technology or lack thereof performing its work;  

G.  Determine the standards of selection for employment and the standards 

of service to be offered by the Nashua Library System;  

H.  Assign Union employees to work in any job classification as needed, in 

the judgment of the appropriate supervisor or manager.  

I.  Exercise managerial policy, as set forth in RSA 273-A;  

J.  Schedule the hours and days of work whether for emergency purposes 

or not.  

The foregoing Management Rights are set out for purposes of illustration and not 

limitation; the City of Nashua retains all such rights, powers, and authority, whether 
exercised or not, conferred upon it by law. This clause is not meant to negate the Union's 
right to negotiate over changes in wages, hours and working conditions as provided by 
law. Nothing herein shall be deemed to abrogate the authority of the Board conferred 
upon it by RSA 202-A, as amended from time to time.  
 
ARTICLE 8  
STRIKES AND WORK STOPPAGES  
 

The Union shall not instigate, sponsor or encourage any activity or action in 

contravention of the provisions of intent of the agreement.  
No employee shall, alone or in concert, engage in, initiate, sponsor, support or direct a 
strike, work stoppage, or refuse in the course of employment to perform assigned duties; 
or withhold, curtail or restrict services or otherwise interfere with the operations of the 
City of Nashua or encourage others to do so; or engage, or participate in any other form 
of job action.  
 
ARTICLE 9  
WORK WEEK AND WORK SCHEDULE  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A.  The work week shall consist of seven consecutive 24 hour periods 

beginning on Sunday and ending on Saturday.  

B.  The normal work schedule shall consist of forty (40) hours.  

C.  Any change in regular work schedule hours shall be the subject of 

discussions between the Union and the City before being implemented. 
This subsection shall not be construed to reduce or impair 

management's authority pursuant to the article entitled "Management 
Rights" supra.  

D.  Full-time: Full-time staff members shall work a minimum of 35 hours 

and a maximum of 40 hours during a five day work week schedule 
arranged by each department.  

1a. Full-time Support Staff: The work week is Monday through Friday 
or as arranged by each department.  
 
1b. Full-time Public Service Staff: The work week is Monday through 
Saturday. Public Service staff are required to work no more than two 
nights per week and alternate Saturday based on departmental need.  
 
2. Regular Part-time Staff: The work week shall ordinarily consist of no 
more than 32 hours a week.  

3. Hourly Part-time Staff: The work week shall consist of no more than 
24 hours per week.  

 

 

 

 

 

Sunday hours, not covered by permanently assigned staff, will be filled on a 

voluntary rotating basis by staff not permanently assigned to work on Sunday 

Beginning at the signing of this agreement, Sunday hours will be offered starting 

at the beginning of the seniority list and then continuing on a rotating basis. 

If no one volunteers, the first eligible employee on the seniority list will be 

required to work. If the Library Director or designee determine that he/she needs an 
employee with certain training or experience on a certain Sunday they shall have the 
option of assigning an employee with those skills. In this case, voluntary rotation within 
the list will be followed.  
 
If the Board considers staffing the Sunday shift on a permanent basis they shall meet and 
consult with the Union one month prior to such change to discuss the change. If after 
discussing the proposed change with the Union, the Board decides to implement the 
change, it will do so in accordance with the requirements of pertinent law.  
 
                      MEALTIME: Employees are allowed up to one hour unpaid for meals.  
 
                      BREAK TIME: A paid fifteen minute break is given for each four hours of 
work. Breaks cannot be accumulated and may not be used to shorten the work day or 
added to the meal period.  
 
                      CALL-BACK RIGHTS: Any employee called back to work on an 
unscheduled basis after having completed his/her assigned work and having left his/her 
place of employment and before his/her next regular scheduled starting time, shall be 
granted time and one half in money or compensatory time at the discretion of the Library 
Director, for all hours work on call-back. The employee shall be guaranteed a minimum 

Sunday hours covered by employees not permanently assigned to a Sunday 
schedule will be paid at time and one half, either in salary or compensatory time as 
determined by the Director or designee.  
 

Compensatory time for hourly employees will be subject to the requirements of 
State and Federal law. Compensatory time for salaried employees will be granted upon 
the employees request, subject to the approval of the Library Director or designee. No 
such request will be unreasonably denied. Upon separation from service unused 
compensatory time will be paid to the employee. In the event of the death of an 
employee, his/her unused compensatory time will be paid to the spouse or estate of the 
employee.  
 
Overtime, including overtime paid pursuant to paragraph two of this article (line 17), 
shall be compensated with pay to the extent of available overtime funds, otherwise by 
compensatory time. If management and the employee mutually agree, overtime may be 
compensated with compensatory time even if funds are available.  
 
ARTICLE 11  
SENIORITY  
 

Seniority is defined as length of service within the bargaining unit. Seniority shall 

of two (2) hours for being called back to the library This provision does not apply to split 
shifts.  
ARTICLE 10  
OVERTIME  
 

Overtime must be approved by the Library Director or designee before work is 

performed. Any hours worked over 40 will be paid at time and one-half in money or time 
and one-half in Compensatory Time, as determined by the Library Director or designee. 
Part-time employees will be paid straight time up to 40 hours and time and one-half for 
any additional hours in either money or compensatory time as determined by the Library 
Director or designee.  
 

be determined on a prorata basis.  
 
                      Pro-rata Basis (Same as longevity)  
                      40 hour work week 1 year = 1 year  
                      35 hour work week 1 year = 10.5 months  
                      30 hour work week 1 year = 9 months  
                      25 hour work week 1 year = 7.5 months  
 

Service ceased due to resignation, retirement or termination shall cause all 

accrued seniority to be lost. Employees who are laid off and subsequently rehired under 
the recall provision shall upon his/her return, be entitled to all previously accrued 
seniority.  
 

Seniority shall not accrue while an employee is out on unpaid leave. Unpaid leave 

does not include Workers Compensation leave, during which seniority will accrue. 
Seniority will cease to accrue on the beginning of the first full month after leave is 
granted.  
 

The Board shall furnish the Union secretary/treasurer with an up to date Seniority 

List on a quarterly basis, if requested. The Board will also furnish the names of all new 
hires, promotions, layoffs and terminations on a monthly basis.  
 

Until an employee has served the probationary period, the employee has no 

seniority status and may be discharged or laid off without cause. Upon successful 
completion of the probationary period, seniority will accrue retroactively to the date of 
hire.  
 

The employee shall accumulate seniority while on an authorized leave of absence 
with the exception of unpaid leave as outlined above. Seniority is employed for purposes 
of assigning leave, overtime, layoff and recall as provided in articles pertinent to those 
subjects.  
 
ARTICLE 12  
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE  
 

In the event that differences arise with respect to any provision of this agreement, 

an earnest effort shall be made to settle such differences promptly. The process will be 
carried out in the following order and manner. Any resolution of a grievance, at any step 
in the process, shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.  
 

STEP I An employee shall present a verbal grievance with or without the 

assistance of the Union to their immediate supervisor. The employee may meet with the 
Supervisor for a maximum of one hour. If the grievance is not settled at the meeting the 
grievance may proceed to the next step. The employee will be paid at his/her regular rate 
of pay for time spent in the meeting, if during work hours. The Union shall be notified of 
the resolution of the grievance in writing within 5 days.  
 

STEP II If the employee is not satisfied with the results of Step 1, the grievance 

shall be set in writing on the attached form.  
 

The grievance must be signed by the employee and Union Representative and 
presented to the Library Director or designee within fifteen (15) working days after the 
employee knew or should have known of the occurrence of the circumstances giving rise 
to the grievance.  
 

The Library Director or designee will be given five (5) working days after the 
receipt of the grievance to have a meeting with the grieved party and/or with a Union 
representative and to communicate a decision in writing to the Union. If the grievance is 

not settled to the satisfaction of the employee and the Union,  or if no reply is 
communicated after the five (5) working days, the grievance may proceed to Step III.  
 

STEP III The Union will inform the Board of the grievance, in writing and within 
ten (10) working days of the Library Director's decision or lack thereof. The Union shall 
provide the Board with copies of all prior communications. The Board will, at it's next 
regular meeting, or thirty (30) days, whichever comes sooner, meet with a Union 
Representative designated by the Union, with or without the grieved party. The Board 
will then communicate a written decision to the Union within ten (10) working days 
thereafter. If the grievance is not settled to the satisfaction of the Union, or if no reply has 
been communicated after the ten (10) working days, the grievance may proceed to Step 
IV.  
 

STEP IV Within thirty (30) working days of the Board decision, or expiration of 

the decision period, either the Union will have the option of submitting any remaining 
disagreement over the interpretation or application of a specific provision of the 
agreement, to be settled by arbitration. The Union shall inform the Board in writing of the 
decision to arbitrate.  
 

The choice of Arbitrator shall be in agreement of the two parties. However, if no 

such agreement has been reached within ten (10) working days of the party filing its 
decision to arbitrate, the grievance may be referred by the Union to the American 
Arbitration Association for the selection of the arbitrator in accordance with the rules 
then obtaining, of said Association applicable to labor arbitration. Any arbitration 
hereunder shall be conducted in accordance with such rules, subject to the provisions of 
this agreement. All decisions of the arbitrator shall be binding. The arbitrator shall have 
no authority to award monetary remedy hereunder other than for lost compensation which 
would have been otherwise received pursuant to the terms of this agreement.  
 
TIME LIMITATIONS  
 

The times for taking action stated above may be extended by mutual consent in 
writing but all the steps of this procedure shall be handled as expeditiously as possible 
with a view to promoting and maintaining harmony. Request of either party for 
extensions of time shall not be unreasonably denied.  
 

Failure at any step of this procedure by the Library Director, his/her designee or 
the Board to communicate a decision in writing on a grievance within the time specified 
shall permit an appeal of the grievance to the next step. Failure at any step of this 
procedure to appeal a grievance to the next step within the specified time limits shall be 
deemed to be acceptance of the decision rendered at the step and shall constitute a waiver 
of the right to further appeal the grievance.  
 
 
 
 

The fees and expenses charged by the arbitrator or AAA shall be shared equally 

by the Board and the Union.  
 
GRIEVANCE BY THE BOARD  
 

UNION REPRESENTATION  

 
The Board will allow the grieved party reasonable time to meet with Union 

representatives for the purpose of discussing the grievance.  
 
 
FEES  
 

The Board shall have the right to present grievances. In the event it does so, it 

shall notify the Union of the grievance in writing and the procedure to be followed shall 
be the same as set forth for Steps III above.  
 
SINGLE FORUM:  
 

It is agreed by the parties that disputes of any character arising out of this 

agreement, whether grievances as defined herein or matters which could conceivably be 
within the jurisdiction of the N.H. PELRB, whether grievances or not, shall be brought in 
only one forum: the PELRB, arbitration pursuant to this article, or a court of competent 
jurisdiction, and not more than one such forum. Nothing herein is intended to expand the 
subject matter of what is grievable pursuant to this article, to limit the jurisdiction of the 
PELRB or a court, or impair any defense that a party may have to any dispute, including 
the defense that the forum is without jurisdiction to hear the matter for any reason. This 
provision does not limit either party's right to appeal a decision, to the extent appealable, 
or to seek to enforce one in a proper forum therefore.  
 
ARTICLE 13  
JOB POSTING/LAY-OFFS/RECALL  
POSTING POLICY:  
 

A notice of position vacancy shall be communicated to all library employees. The 

notice of the position vacancy shall be posted on the Main Library Staff Room bulletin 
board and on the Chandler Library Staff Bulletin Board for ten (10) working days to 
allow qualified eligible employees to apply.  
 

The notices will include information on job title, grade, salary/hourly, department, 

brief description of the usual content, and position qualifications.  
 

All internal candidates applications will be reviewed and all qualified internal 

candidates will be interviewed. No external applicant will be considered until all 
qualified internal candidates are interviewed. All internal applicants not selected for 

promotional positions shall be notified of the decision in writing prior to the hiring of 
external applicants.  
 
SELECTION OF QUALIFIED CANDIDATES:  
 
The Board, upon the recommendation of the Library Director, shall make the final 
decision when filling the position. The best qualified candidate shall be selected. The 
guidelines for filling any open position is based upon the applying employee's ability, 
qualifications, experience, and work performance. 

When qualifications between applicants are relatively equal, seniority will be used 

to award the position.  
 
PROMOTIONAL PROCEDURES:  
 

A promoted employee shall have a performance evaluation completed at least 

once during the probationary period. Should the employee's performance be 
unsatisfactory, or should the employee find the job unsatisfactory anytime during the 
promotional probationary period, the employee shall be entitled to return to the position 
from which promoted within thirty (30) days of the promotion, unless extended for an 
additional thirty (30) days by the Library Director.  
 
PROBATIONARY PERIOD:  
 

The probationary period for all new hires will be at least ninety (90) calendar days 
and may be extended by management in order to provide the employee additional time to 
be successful. In no case will the probationary period be more than 180 days. For 
promotional employees the probationary period is 30 calendar days, unless extended an 
additional thirty (30) days by the Library Director.  
 
RATE OF PAY:  
 

Persons appointed to positions for the first time shall be paid an amount within the 

established range for the position.  
 
LAY-OFF PROVISION:  
 

to conduct its operations.  
 

The Board reserves the right to institute a reduction in force as deemed necessary 

If the Board is contemplating the reduction in force of any employee it will so 

notify the employee two (2) weeks before the proposed effective date of the layoff. Such 
notice will be in writing and will include the proposed time schedule and the reason for 
the proposed reduction in force.  
 

When making layoff decisions, qualification factors such education and 

experience, job performance, absenteeism record, and work load of personnel will be 

considered. If management finds all factors to be reasonably equal for the employees 
subject to layoff, then reverse seniority shall be utilized in making the layoff decision.  
 

In cases where an employee has five (5) or more years of seniority, the employee 

shall be eligible to bump the least senior employee in any position for which he/she is 
qualified, if any.  
 

Severance pay equal to one day's salary for each year of seniority over five years 

will be paid to any employee who is dismissed due to a layoff.  
 
RECALL PROVISION:  
 
Laid off employees shall be eligible for recall for a period of two (2) years from the date 
of layoff. A laid off employee shall be given preference for any position which he/she 
may be qualified for during said period. Recall will be by seniority providing the recalled 
employee is qualified for the open position. 

The Board shall send notices of other position vacancies to all employees eligible 

for recall to their last known address.  
 
ARTICLE 14  
DISTRIBUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT  
 

The City shall be responsible for reproducing copies of this Agreement and 

distributing one each to every member of the bargaining unit..  
 
ARTICLE 15  
LEAVES  
PERSONAL LEAVE:  
 

Full-time and regular part-time employees shall be granted a maximum of 3 days 

(24 hours) of personal leave with full pay per year for any of the following reasons:  
 
                      1. Serious illness in the immediate family  
                      2. Special religious observances that fall on days other than legal holidays  
                      3. Personal obligations that can only be resolved during business hours.  
 

Personal leave is a drawn from employees sick time account.  
Personal leave shall not carry forward from year to year.  
Personal leave is taken in hours for hourly employees. Salaried employees may 

use personal leave in hours and for accounting purposes, once a number of hours equals 
the employee's regularly scheduled work day, one personal leave day shall be deducted.  
 
 
 
 
 

RECOGNITION DAYS:  
 

Full-time employees shall commence earning one (1) paid recognition day per 

year from the first year of employment based on his/her hiring date, and may start using 
these days after five (5) continuous years of employment with the Library System.  
 

Employees leaving the Library System shall receive payment for the balance of 

recognition days accrued in his/her account in a lump sum calculated at the rate of pay in 
effect on the day of termination.  
 
 
SICK TIME:  
 

Every full-time employee is entitled to sick leave with full pay at the rate of 1.375 

days per month or 16.5 days per year.  
 

Every regular part-time employee is entitled to sick leave with pay (regular daily 

schedule) at the rate of 1 day per month or 12 days per year.  
 

For employees hired after July 1, 1994, sick leave will accumulate to a total of 

sixty (60) working days (regular schedule).  
 

maximum accruals shall be handled as follows:  
 

For members of the bargaining unit (employees) on July 1, 1994, sick leave 

 

 

 

a.  Accruals shall continue as in the past up to a maximum of 99 days until 

June 39, 1996.  

b.  As of June 30, 1996, no sick days shall accrue to employees having a 
sick leave balance of 60 or more days and the maximum accrual shall 
become 60 days for employees having a sick leave balance of 60 or 
fewer days on that date.  

c.  As of June 30, 1996k employees having a sick leave balance in excess 

of 60 days may make one of the following elections:  

 
                      I. Retain the excess days and use them in the normal fashion, or  
 

II. Convert the excess days to recognition days a the ratio of three (3) sick 
days to one (1) recognition day (rounded to the next highest whole 
number). The conversion may be of any number of sick days, but may not 
leave the employee with a sick leave balance of fewer than 45 sick days.  

For example, if an employee had 99 sick days on June 30, 1996, and wishes 
to convert all possible days, leaving a balance of 45 sick days, as required, 

                      the following conversion results:  

 
                      39 sick days (99 - 60, the new maximum)  
 
                      +15 sick days (60 - 45, maximum conversion)  
 
                      54 sick days  
 
                      3 (the conversion ratio is 3:1)  
 
                      18 recognition days result, new sick leave balance is 45.  
 

Sick leave is used for illness or accident of employee, employee's domestic 

partner or children.  
 

Employees terminating employment because of illness will remain on full salary 

for the period of accrued sick leave. However said employees may opt to take a lump 
sum payment of one-half (1/2) their accrued sick leave calculated at the rate of pay in 
effect on their last day of employment.  
 

Upon retirement an employee shall receive payment for the balance of sick leave 
accrued in his/her account in a lump sum calculated at the rate of pay in effect on the day 
of retirement.  
 

Sick leave may be transferred from city departments to the Library when 

changing jobs, up to the amount of the maximum accrual set forth above.  
 
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE:  
 

Every full-time and regular part-time employee shall be entitled to bereavement 

leave, up to three (3) days per occurrence with full pay.  
 

Death in the employee's immediate family only is covered. The leave may extend 

from the time of notification of death up to and including the day following burial, but 
not more than three (3) days. When unusual conditions exist, this period may be extended 
at the discretion of the Library Director or designee.  
 

The immediate family includes the following relatives of the employee or the 

employee's domestic partner: the aforementioned domestic partner, children  (including 
step-children, fetuses, miscarriages and still-births), parents, brothers, sisters, 
grandparents, grandchildren, son or daughter in-law.  
 

For full-time and regular part-time employees, an allowance for the day of the 

funeral is made for any other blood or maritally related relative with the prior approval of 
the Library Director. When unusual conditions exist, this period may be extended at the 
discretion of the Library Director or designee.  
 

New Year's Day 
President's Day 
Civil Rights Day 
Memorial Day (Fed) 
Independence Day 
Labor Day  
Columbus Day 
Veteran's Day 
Thanksgiving Day  
Christmas Day 
(1) Floating Holiday 
Presidential Election Day  

 

Monday  

Friday  
 

Bereavement leave shall be charged to sick leave accumulation.  

 
HOLIDAYS:  
 

All full-time and regular part-time employees covered under this agreement shall 
receive straight time wages for their regularly scheduled hours (not to exceed 8 hours). 
They shall not be required to work on the following holidays, or any other day declared a 
federal, state, county or city holiday. 

When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the holiday will be observed on the following 

When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the holiday will be observed on the preceding 

When a holiday falls on an employee's day off, all employees will be paid at their 
straight time rate for their regularly scheduled daily hours (not to exceed eight (8) hours) 
or at the discretion of the Library Director, may be given another day off (regular 
schedule) within twenty (20) work days.  
 

If an employee works on one of the above-referenced holidays, the employee will 

be compensated as follows:  
 

Voluntary work (by seniority) - The employee shall receive straight time pay for 

the hours worked and shall receive one personal floating holiday day inlieu of the holiday 
worked or any other compensation, to be taken within thirty (30) days of the holiday 
worked.  
 

Assigned work (by reverse seniority) - The employee shall receive one and one-

half straight time pay for the hours worked and shall receive one personal floating 
holiday day in lieu of the holiday worked or any other compensation, to be taken within 
thirty (30) days of the holiday worked.  
 
 
 

The Board encourages the reasonable use of vacation by employees in order to 

All employees shall be entitled to vacation leave according to the following 

Full Time Employees:  
After one year of service 2 weeks (one week may be taken after 6 months, if 

approved by the Library Director or designee).  
 

After five years of service 3 weeks  

VACATION:  
 

schedules:  
 

foster their health and well being.  
 

After ten years of service 4 weeks  

Regular Part-Time Employees:  

After one year of service 1 week  

After two years of service 2 weeks  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vacation request forms must be filled out by each staff member in advance of 
his/her vacation to allow for proper scheduling of personnel. Forms must be signed by 
department supervisors and submitted to the Library Director.  
 

Vacations that exceed three consecutive weeks at one time must have written 

approval of the Library Director.  
 

Vacations are granted with seniority as the deciding factor when two or more 

employees request the same time period off and there is a schedulingconflict. Vacation 
requests may be submitted no earlier than two (2) months prior to the first date of 
vacation if the seniority provision is to apply.  
 

When an employee leaves the Nashua Library service for any reason he/she is 

entitled to collect in payment the balance of his/her vacation accountaccrued up to their 
date of termination.  
 

Maximum Accrual:  

Unused vacation leave may be retained from year to year and vacation leave shall 
continue to accrue as provided herein up to a balance equal to four times the amount of 
vacation leave earned by the employee but not more than sixty days (regular schedule). 
No vacation leave shall accrue beyond that limit, and any such time not accrued shall be 
forfeited.  
 

Employees at or over the maximum accrual, at the time of the signing of this 

Contract, shall not lose any accumulated vacation time and will be given the opportunity 
to use any accumulated vacation time over the maximum accrual. No employee will lose 
any accumulated vacation as the result of denial of a pending application for vacation.  
 
 
ARTICLE 16  
UNPAID LEAVE:  
 

A request for a leave of absence without pay must be submitted in writing to the 

Library Director. Leaves up to one month may be granted by the Library Director; all 
leaves exceeding one month, accompanied by the recommendation of the Library 
Director, must be submitted for approval to the Board.  
 

The Board, upon the recommendation of the Library Director, and in its sole 

discretion, may grant a maximum of one year leave of absence without pay for personal 
reasons to any employee.  
 

During an unpaid leave of absence, the City of Nashua shall continue to pay its 

position of health, dental and life insurance premiums for up to six (6) months. 
Employees who are on such leave shall continue to pay their portion of the premiums 
during that period, and thereafter shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost to 
continue coverage.  
 

Payment of group insurance premiums during an unpaid leave of absence must be 

arranged in advance with the Human Resource and Insurance Department of the City of 
Nashua.  
 

The Board shall approve leave I accordance with the provisions of the Family and 
Medical Leave Act of 1993; however, any such leave shall be taken on a paid leave basis 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 15 of this Agreement first, with any remaining leave 
to be taken on an unpaid basis pursuant to the provisions of Article 16 of this Agreement. 
Family and Medical Leave Act leave shall not exceed three (3) months in any one fiscal 
year.  
 
ARTICLE 16  
LONGEVITY BONUS PAY  
 

Full-time and regular part-time employees who have been employed by the 

Library System for ten (10) or more years, on an uninterrupted basis, except by reason of 
lay-off or approved leave of absence, will receive a longevity payment on or about the 
employee's anniversary date, for the current calendar year, based on their length of 
service as of date of hire (anniversary date), as follows:  
 
                      5 to 9 years of service $200.00  
                      10 to 16 years of service $400.00  

                      17 to 24 years of service $600.00  
 

Longevity pay to a regular part-time employee who has five years or more of 

uninterrupted service, and who works at least twenty-five (25) hours per week, shall be 
pro-rated based on the relationship between the number of hours normally worked and 
forty hours per week. For example, if an employee is regularly scheduled for thirty (30) 
hours per week, the longevity payment would be 75% of the above listed amounts. 
Longevity Bonus Pay shall be paid on a prorated basis when an employee leaves for any 
reason other than termination, in which case it will be forfeited.  
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 19  
JURY DUTY PAY  
 
      
juror or are subpoenaed for curt appearances are granted leave with pay, less the 
compensation received for such service.  
 
ARTICLE 20  
WORKER'S COMPENSATION  
 

All employees covered under this agreement who are called upon to serve as a 

Workers' Compensation shall be provided by the City with coverage as specified 

in legislation of the State of New Hampshire.  
 

compensation, the City agrees to:  
 

In the event an employee is injured on the job and is collecting workers' 

 An employee injured while on the job and absent because of such injury shall be 

paid by the City for the full day which the injury occurred.  
 
 

1.  pay the employee each week, the payment will include the difference 

between the amount they are paid under Workers' compensation and the 
amount of the employee's pay for their regularly scheduled work week 
as in effect at the time of the injury.  

2.  make such supplemental payments for as long as the employee is 

disabled, but in no case longer than six (6) months from the date of 
injury.  

3.  continue to accumulate all benefits during the period in which the 

employee is out on Workers' Compensation, up to six (6) months from 
the date of injury. 

 

 

 

ARTICLE 21  
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT  
REQUIRED PROGRAMS  
 

The Board will grant employees time with pay to attend job related seminars, 

workshops, courses and conferences that it requires an employee to attend. 
 

The Board will reimburse at 100% the cost of tuition and or fees of said required 
job related seminars, workshops, courses and conferences plus any other directly related 
costs such as travel, lodging, meals or other necessary expenses that are incurred.  
 
 
 
 
REQUESTED BY EMPLOYEE  
 

The Board may, at its discretion, grant time with pay to attend job related 

seminars, workshops, courses and conferences that an employee wishes to attend. Upon 
request by the employee, the Board may, at its discretion, pay any or all of the following: 
tuition and/or fees, travel, lodging, meals or other necessary expense  
 

Any such seminars, workshops, courses, and conferences shall be approved in 
writing in advance by the Library Director or designee in his discretion and subject to 
available funding as he may determine.  
 
DEGREE PROGRAM:  
 

The Board encourages all employees to pursue a degree at an accredited 

college/university approved by the Board, when said degree is a requirement for job 
advancement.  
 

Reimbursement is as follows:  
Fifty percent (50%) for courses taken in a degree program.  

 

Students enrolled in a degree program must achieve a "B" or better in a graduate 

level course to be reimbursed, a "B-" or better in an undergraduate course.  
 

Full-time employees actively pursuing an approved Master's degree on a more 

than occasional course basis, as determined by the Library Director, shall be granted up 
to five hours off with pay each week for class attendance and preparation.  
 

Full-time employees actively pursuing a Bachelors degree on a more than 

occasional course basis, as determined by the Library Director, may be granted up to five 
hours off with pay each week for class attendance and preparation when classes conflict 
with the employee's work schedule, in the discretion of the Library Director or designee.  
 

Reimbursement for degree program courses shall be on a first come first served 

basis and subject to available funding as determined by the Library Director from time to 
time. In order to be eligible for reimbursement, it must be requested in advance of 
registration of the course  
 
ARTICLE 22  
LONG TERM DISABILITY (LTD)  
 

Full-time employees covered by this agreement who have been employed by the 
City for three (3) years on an uninterrupted basis except by reason of layoff, on the job 
injury or approved leave of absence, shall be covered for long term disability under a 
policy of insurance, the premium for which is to be fully paid by the City, subject to such 
eligibility requirements and other terms and conditions as the carrier may establish. The 
City reserves the right to change long term disability insurers to another commercially 
available program having overall comparability of coverage to that currently in effect on 
the date of execution hereof, or to self insure said coverage. Employees are encouraged to 
maintain adequate sick time balances to cover the elimination period for the long term 
disability benefit in order to avoid the risk of having to request unpaid leave.  
 
ARTICLE 23  
HEALTH INSURANCE  
 

The City shall provide, upon request of a member of the bargaining unit, the 

benefits of an individual, two-person or family plan, of one but not more, of the following 
to the limits set forth in this section:  
 

a.  A federally-qualified Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) with 

one-million dollar ($1,000,000) major medical rider; including Matthew 
Thornton, Harvard Community or Health Source; or a commercially 
available plan having overall comparability therewith.  

b.  Blue Cross/Blue Shield Plan JWM, together with Blue Cross/Blue 

Shield one-million dollar ($1,000,000) Major Medical Plan and 
maternity benefit rider, or a plan providing equivalent benefits 
underwritten by an insurance carrier other than Blue Cross/Blue Shield.  

 

 

Any member of the bargaining unit requesting membership in any health plan 

offered by the city may enter during a specified enrollment period. Any member desiring 
to select a different plan after having enrolled in one of the above plans may make such 
selection only once during any one calendar year, during the specified enrollment period.  
 

The Board shall contribute 85% of the cost toward the premiums of the indemnity 
plan. The Board shall contribute 100% of the cost of the premium of the HMO plans until 
June 30, 1996, thereafter it shall contribute 95% thereof.  
 

Regular part-time employees are eligible for this benefit on a pro-rata basis. This 

means, by way of example, that if a part-time employee works 30 hours per week, he/she 
is eligible to receive 3/4 of the Board's contributive share of his/her premium cost, and 
the employee pays the balance. The regular part-time employee shall work a minimum of 
25 hours per week in order to be eligible for this benefit.  
 

In the event that an employee's spouse is employed by the City of Nashua, the 
Nashua School District, or another agency of the City, the employee shall be entitled to 
health insurance premium coverage either pursuant to this article or pursuant to the 
coverage afforded to the spouse, but not both.  
 
ARTICLE 24  
DENTAL INSURANCE  
 

The Board shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium of a two person 

plan dental insurance program such as Delta Dental, currently in effect on the date of 
execution hereof. The Board reserves the right to change insurance carriers or plans, or to 
self insure the same. Such new plans shall offer benefits commercially available in the 
market and shall have overall comparability of coverage to the above referenced plans to 
the extent said coverages are commercially available.  
 

In the event that an employee's spouse is employed by the City of Nashua, the 
Nashua School District, or another agency of the City, the employee shall be entitled to 
dental insurance premium coverage either pursuant to this article or pursuant to the 
coverage afforded to the spouse, but not both.  
 
ARTICLE 25  
LIFE INSURANCE  
 

The City agrees to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of a 

Basic Life Insurance and AD&D for full time employees and regular part-time 
employees, in an amount equal to one and one half (1.5) the employee's annual straight 
time wages, rounded to the nearest thousand dollars. Employees may purchase at their 
expense optional life insurance in denominations of up to three times their basic amount 
to a maximum of three hundred thousand ($300,000) total, basic and optional combined, 
subject to any eligibility or other rules prescribed by the insurer. The City reserves the 
right to change life insurance providers.  
 
ARTICLE 26  
DEPENDENT CARE ASSISTANT PROGRAM  
 

Employees with dependents may be eligible for the Dependent Care Assistant 

Program as authorized by the Federal Government. The program allows a city employee 
up to a $5000 a year deduction from earnings without taxes (Federal, FICA) to be used 
for dependent care. The City agrees to maintain this program in effect during this 
agreement so long as the same remains authorized in its present form by the Internal 

Revenue Code. Compliance with the Internal Revenue Code and any and all liability for 
taxation are the sole responsibility of the employee.  
 
ARTICLE 27  
DEATH BENEFIT  
 

The beneficiary of an employee shall be entitled to collect in payment at the 

current rate of pay the sum of the employee's vacation, sick and recognition days accrued 
until date of employee's death. The Library Administrator will provide a form for the 
employee to designate their beneficiary(s). Change forms will be provided upon request  
 
 
ARTICLE 28  
PAY PERIOD  
 

All employees covered under this agreement shall be paid on a weekly basis. 
Thursday of each week, unless a holiday falls on such day, in which case                      
pay day will be the day prior.  
 
ARTICLE 29  
MILITARY SERVICE  
 

Any full-time employee covered under this Agreement who leaves to enter 
directly into involuntary active service in the Armed Forces of the United States is 
granted a military leave of absence for the anticipated length of service. A Military leave 
of absence entitles an employee to be reinstated to the position held, or one similar in pay 
and status, so long as the employee provides notice of his/her desire to resume such 
employment within thirty (30) days of discharge from the armed forces and the employee 
accepts such discharge at the earliest possible date.  
 
ARTICLE 30  
MILITARY RESERVE AND NATIONAL GUARD PAY  
 

Any full-time employee covered under this Agreement, called to serve not more 
than a seventeen (17) day annual training tour of duty with the National Guard or Armed 
Forces Reserves will be paid the difference between his or her pay for such government 
service and the amount of straight time earnings lost by the employee by reason of such 
service, based on the employee's regularly scheduled straight time rate. Such payments 
are to be made following the showing of satisfactory evidence of the amount of pay 
received for such service.  
 

An employee covered under this Agreement called to serve duty with the National 

Guard or Armed Forces Reserves in the time of war or national conflict will be paid the 
difference between his/her pay for such government service and the amount of straight 
time earnings lost by the employee by reason of such service, based on the employee's 

regularly scheduled straight time rate. Such payments are to be made following the 
showing of satisfactory evidence of the amount of pay received for such service.  
 
ARTICLE 31  
DEFERRED COMPENSATION  
 

The City will continue to offer a deferred compensation plan to all employees 

covered under this contract during the term hereof so long as it is authorized 
to do so in the present manner under the Internal Revenue Code. Deferred compensation 
allows the employee to defer income and the associated taxes from their paycheck, until 
they receive the money sometime after retirement.  
 
ARTICLE 32  
MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT  
 

Employees traveling in their own privately owned vehicle on library business 

must be reimbursed at the current city mileage reimbursement rate or the current Internal 
Revenue Service mileage reimbursement rate, whichever is higher.  
 
ARTICLE 33  
TRAVEL  
 

The Board shall pay all costs related to the travel it requires. Costs shall include 

but not be limited to: transportation cost (plane, train, automobile rental (if required), 
automobile at the prescribed mileage rate, etc.) meals including tax and tip, lodging 
(including all taxes and a five minute phone call home each night) and other 
miscellaneous expenses directly related to the required travel.  
 
ARTICLE 34  
PERSONNEL FILE  
 

Every employee shall be entitled access to supervisory records and reports of 

competence, personal character and efficiency, along with all other information 
maintained in their official personnel file. The Board shall allow the employee access to 
their file within twenty-four (24) hours notice. Upon request the Board shall copy the file 
for the employee. Subsequent copies will be made at cost.  
 
ARTICLE 35  
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION  
 

 Performance evaluations shall be completed every two years by the employee's 

direct supervisor on or about the employee's anniversary date of hire.  
 

The performance evaluation procedure requires an interview between the 

employee and his/her direct supervisor both of whom shall sign said evaluation. The 

employee shall be given a copy of the completed form and shall have the right to file a 
written rebuttal which shall be affixed to the form.  
 

The purpose of performance evaluations is to analyze employee performance in 
relation to the mission of the Nashua Public Library. Its goal is to recognize performance 
and to suggest future areas of improvement. It is understood that performance evaluations 
are not meant to be disciplinary and as such not meant to be used by the Board, the 
Director or his designees as part of the Disciplinary Procedure.  
 

The evaluation will be placed in the employee's personnel file after review by the 
Director or Assistant Director. An evaluation may be appealed directly to the Director or 
Assistant Director but will not be grievable under Article 12 of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 36  
PARKING  
 

Parking will be provided free of charge for all employees covered under this 

agreement  
 
ARTICLE 37  
BULLETIN BOARDS/MAIL  
BULLETIN BOARDS:  
 

The Board agrees to provide space for suitable bulletin boards in convenient 
places in each Library, to be used by the Union. The Union shall limit its posting of 
notices and bulletins to each bulletin board. Posted materials and notices shall pertain 
only to Union business, shall not pertain to individuals, whether union members or not, 
and shall not be offensive, illegal, or unprofessional. The Union agrees to maintain such 
bulletin boards in a neat and orderly condition. The Union bulletin board will be in the 
staff room in the Main Library and in the kitchen in the Chandler Library.  
 
                      MAIL:  

Officers or officials of the Union shall have the right to reasonable use of the 

City's in-house mail service for correspondence related to grievances.  
 
ARTICLE 38  
DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES  
 

A.  It is agreed that the City has the right to discipline or discharge 

employees for just cause. Discipline shall be corrective in its nature and 
ordinarily utilized progressively. Disciplinary actions shall normally 
follow the order below:  

 

 

1.  Written warnings  

2.  Suspensions without pay  

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.  Discharges  

Demotion may be used for disciplinary purposes in appropriate instances. 
In the event of suspension, demotion, or discharge, the reasons for the 
action taken will be given in writing to the employee within twenty-four 
(24) hours.  

It is understood that the severity of any particular infraction may warrant 
deviation from the aforementioned steps.  

B.  Any employee disciplined or discharged shall, be entitled to the 

provisions of the Grievance Procedure, and will be allowed a 
representative of their choosing. If requested in writing by the 
employee, a hearing must be held with the Union, and Library Director 
within seven (7) calendar days of the disciplinary action or discharge.  

C.  Provided that the employee has not had recurrence of discipline within 

the specified period, written warnings will be removed from the 
employee's personnel file after twelve (12) months upon a written 
request from the employee for such removal and all suspension shall be 
removed within eighteen (18) months upon written request. The prior 
unexpired discipline is carried during the period of any subsequent 
equal or greater discipline and shall be considered in connection with 
any such subsequent discipline in determining the proper level of 
disciplinary action, including discharge.  

D.  Any discharge shall be effected in a manner consistent with the 

provisions of RSA 202-A. And this agreement shall be subordinate to 
the requirements of the statute as amended from time to time. It is 
understood that if RSA 202-A is amended in a way that changes the 
disciplinary procedure substantively that the parties to this agreement 
will meet and negotiate changes to this agreement that will be in 
compliance with the law.  

 
ARTICLE 39  
SAFETY AND HEALTH  
 

The Library System shall comply with all procedures pertinent to the safety and 

health of employees provided by New Hampshire RSA 281-A.ARTICLE 40  
 
WAGES  
 

A.  Fiscal Year 1995. Each member of the bargaining unit shall receive a 
two percent (2%)increase in his or her annual rate of pay as of July 1, 
1994.  

Each member of the bargaining unit shall receive an additional two 
percent (2%) increase in his or her annual rate of pay as of January 1, 
1995.  

B.  Fiscal Year 1996. Each member of the bargaining unit shall receive a 
two percent (2%)increase in his or her annual rate of pay as of July 1, 
1995.  

C.  Each member of the bargaining unit shall receive an additional two 

percent (2%) increase in his or her annual rate of pay as of January 1, 
1996.  

 
 
ARTICLE 41  
PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS/LICENSING  
 

 

 

 

The City shall bear the cost of all licenses and/or certifications required by 

various regulatory agencies (local, state and federal) to maintain the employees 
qualifications necessary for continued employment.  
 
ARTICLE 42  
DURATION OF AGREEMENT  
 

The Agreement between the Union and the City shall commence as of January 1, 

1993, and terminate at midnight on June 30, 1996. A party desiring to negotiate a 
successor agreement hereto shall give notice to the other party at least 180 days in 
advance of the expiration date hereof.. If such notice is given, the parties shall negotiate a 
successor agreement in good faith, in advance of the expiration hereof if possible, and if 
said successor agreement has not been concluded by the expiration hereof, the parties 
shall conduct themselves in accordance with the principle of "status quo," or as otherwise 
required by law.  
 

AGREED to by and between the parties at Nashua, New Hampshire, as evidenced 

by the signatures of their duly authorized representatives, set forth below, this 12 day of 
October , 1994.  
 

FOR THE NASHUA LIBRARY FOR THE AFT LOCAL #4831  

BOARD OF TRUSTEES NASHUA PUBLIC LIBRARY STAFF  

 
American Federation of Teachers, AFLCIO - 555 New Jersey Avenue, NW - 
Washington, DC 20001 
 
Copyright by the American Federation of Teachers, AFLCIO. All rights reserved. 
Photographs and illustrations, as well as text, cannot be used without permission from the 

