Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

41

Language English

Country United States

State CA

Union AFT (American Federation of Teachers) AFL-CIO

Local

Local 1794, Newport-Mesa Federation of Teachers

Librarians 
Teachers—preschool, kindergarten, elementary, middle, and secondary 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Newport-Mesa School District
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
92 (Public Administration)

BeginYear 2000

EndYear

2003

Source

http://www.nmft.net/contract.htm

Original_format MS Word (unitary)
Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

Newport-Mesa Federation of Teachers Union Contract 

 

Contents 
 
ARTICLE 1. Agreement 
 Preamble 
  1.1  Agreement is binding 
  1.2  Compliance with law 
  1.3  Provisions affect bargaining unit members 
  1.4  Scope of negotiations in 2000-2001 
  1.5  Provisions for contract committees 
 
ARTICLE 2. Recognition 
  2.1-2.2   Representation and delineation of bargaining unit members 
 
ARTICLE 3. Days and Hours of Employment 
   3.1  Days of Service 
 3.2  Hours of Service 
 3.3  Elementary conference/Preparation period 
 3.4  Duty Free lunch period 
 3.5  Conference period for grades 7-12 
 3.6  Travel time for teachers at 2 sites 
 3.7  General Faculty meetings time limits 
 3.8  Opportunities for classroom visits 
 3.9  Supervision duties 
 
ARTICLE 4. Union Rights  
   4.1  Right to form a union 
 4.2  Negotiations rights 
 4.3  Communication with bargaining unit 
 4.4  Union release time 
 4.5  District-Union meetings 
 4.6  Organizational Security 
 4.7  Publications and Documents 
 
ARTICLE 5. Safety Conditions and Educational Environment 
   5.1  Non-Hazardous Working Conditions 
 5.2  Threats and Bodily Harm While on Duty 
 5.3  District Liability Insurance 
 5.4  Reimbursement for Stolen Property 
 5.5  Educational Environment 
 5.6  Disaster Preparedness 
 
ARTICLE 6. Evaluation 

   6.1  Evaluation: Purpose and Responsibility 
 6.2  Evaluation Guidelines 
 6.3  Steps of the Evaluation 
         6.3.1  Planning Phase 
         6.3.2  Monitoring Phase 
 6.4  Alternative Evaluation 
 6.5  Personnel Files 
 
ARTICLE 7. Peer Assistance And Review  
   Preamble 
 7.1  Joint Committee for PAR Governance 
 7.2  Consulting Teachers 
 7.3  Referred Participating Teacher 
 7.4  Referred Teacher Due Process Rights 
 7.5  Voluntary Participating Teachers (Peer Partners) 
 7.6  Records/Confidentiality 
 7.7  Budget 
 7.8  Status and Liability Protection of Unit Members 
 7.9 Term of Agreement 
 
ARTICLE 8. Class Size 
   8.1-8.2   Elementary class size 
  8.3  Special Education class size 
  8.4  7-12 Class size 
               8.4.5  Science classes 
  8.5  Knowledge/justification of class size 
 
ARTICLE 9. Transfers 
   9.1  Definition 
  9.2  Transfer Conditions 
  9.3  Vacancy Posting 
  9.4  Voluntary Transfer 
  9.5  Intra-District Position Exchange 
  9.6  Involuntary Transfers  
  9.7  Involuntary Transfers for Improvement of Performance 
  9.8  Non-Discrimination 
 
ARTICLE 10. Traveling Teacher Assignments 
      10.1-10.8  Rights of Traveling Teachers 
 
ARTICLE 11. Leaves 
  11.1  Notification Procedures 
  11.2  Verification Procedure 
  11.3  Illness or Injury Leave 

  11.4  Leave for Pregnancy Disability 
  11.5  Military Leave 
  11.6  Personal Necessity Leave 
  11.7  Bereavement Leave 
  11.8  Jury Duty Leave 
  11.9  Court Appearance Leave 
  11.10  Industrial Accident or Illness Leave 
  11.11  Leaves of Absence Without Pay 
  11.12  Rights Upon Return 
  11.13  Sabbatical Leaves (Funding currently suspended) 
  11.14  Administrative Leave 
  11.15  Catastrophic Leave Program 
 
ARTICLE 12.  Salaries 
   12.1  Goals and salary benchmarks 
  12.2  Beginning teacher money 
  12.3  Compensation package 
  12.4  Negotiating use of additional revenue 
  12.5  Initial Placement 
  12.6  Step Advancement 
  12.7  Column Advancement 
           Professional Growth requirements 
  12.8  Leaves/Interruption of Service 
  12.9  Stipends (CLAD, B-CLAD) 
  12.10  Adult Education and Hourly Employees 
  12.11  Role and Recompense 
  12.12  Summer School 
  12.13  Emergency Substitute Service by Unit Members 
  12.14  Request for Credit Information 
  12.15  Extended Learning Academies 
              12.15.1   Salary 
              12.15.2  Postings 
              12.15.3  Selection Process 
              12.15.4  Sick Leave 
              12.15.5  Substitutes 
              12.15.6  Materials 
 
ARTICLE 13.  Health and Welfare Benefits 
(Language Pending that conforms to agreements) 
 
ARTICLE 14.  Part-time Employment With Full Retirement Credit 
  14.1-14.3  Eligibility, deadlines  and requirements for full STRS credit for                        
                   part-time employment 
 

ARTICLE 15.  Shared Contract Employment 
      15.1-15.7  Provisions and rights of  teachers to split a teaching assignment. 
 
ARTICLE 16.  Retirement Benefits 
   16.1  Eligibility 
  16.2  Benefits 
  16.3  Retirement Incentives 
 
ARTICLE 17.  Grievance Procedure 
   17.1  Definition of Terms 
  17.2  Procedures 
                   
ARTICLE 18.  Nondiscrimination 
   18.1     The District shall not discriminate. 
 
ARTICLE 19.  Adult Education and Other Hourly Certificated Employees 
 
ARTICLE 20.  Miscellaneous 
  20.1  Elementary supplies allocation 
  20.2  Special Education supplies allocation 
  20.3  Suspension without pay for unprofessional conduct 
 
ARTICLE 21.  Savings Provision 
   Any provisions held contrary to law will be voided and re-negotiated. 
 
ARTICLE 22.  Completion of Meet and Negotiate 
  Above constitutes the entire agreement between the parties 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

ARTICLE 1.  Agreement 

Preamble 
 
The District and Union agree to engage in the interest-based process for collective 
bargaining until such time as either or both parties find the process is no longer in their 
interest.  Further, both parties agree that all relevant participants receive training in the 
interest-based negotiations process.  Those participants include, but are not limited to, the 
District-Union negotiating team, school board members, N-MFT executive board, 
superintendent’s cabinet, and the N-MFT’s contract development committee.  The 
District and N-MFT will work collaboratively to schedule training during the term of this 
agreement.  (delete this section from 4.2.1, replace with new 4.2.1 below) 
 
1.1 

The articles and provisions contained within this agreement constitute a bilateral 
and binding agreement by and between the Board of Education of the Newport-
Mesa Unified School District, hereinafter referred to as "District," and the 
Newport-Mesa Federation of Teachers, CFT/AFT/AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred 
to as "Union." 

This agreement is entered into pursuant to Chapter 10.7, Sections 3540-3549, of 
the Government Code of the State of California. 

 
1.3            The provisions of this contract shall apply to those employees who are designated 

under Article 2 below. 

 
1.4            This agreement shall be effective on July 1, 2000 and shall remain in full force and 
effect until June 30, 2003.  This agreement shall not be extended orally and it is 
understood that it shall expire on the date indicated.  This agreement will continue 
in full force and effect unless changed by mutual agreement of both parties. 

 
1.2 

 

1.4.1       In 2000-2001, teacher incentive pay will be negotiated.  In addition, an 

interest-based problem solving approach will be used to resolve 
implementation of Peer Assistance and Review, restructuring of the 
contract appendices which define Role and Recompense, implementation 
issues related to the new health and welfare benefits program, sick leave 
incentive, implementation of a catastrophic leave policy, development of a 
Staff Development Trust Agreement, revision of the restructuring 
agreement and implementation of extended learning academies.  In 
addition, either party may re-open up to two articles.  Resolution of these 
matters may result in a written agreement between the Federation and the 
District to amend this collective bargaining agreement when ratified by the 
parties. 

 
1.4.2       Notwithstanding the above, both parties agree that on or before the second 

Board of Education meeting in March of the 2001-2002 and February 

 

 
1.5 

 

2002-2003 school years, either party shall have the right to reopen up to 
three articles of choice plus unit member service calendar, salary and 
benefits.   

1.4.3       By mutual agreement of both parties any other article may be negotiated to 

resolve problems. 

The District shall appoint its representatives to contract committees, and the 
Newport-Mesa Federation of Teachers shall appoint its representatives to contract 
committees. 

1.5.1  Contract committees shall present their recommendations to the 

Negotiating Team.  Final agreement shall be subject to ratification by the 
Board of Education and by the Newport-Mesa Federation of Teachers. 

  

 
2.1 

 

 
2.2 

 
 

ARTICLE 2.  Recognition 

The District recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative as defined by 
Section 3540.1(e) of the Government Code.  The exclusive representative shall 
represent all certificated employees who are employed in positions listed in 
Section 2.1.1 below and who are either regular full- or part-time employees, 
whether permanent or probationary; or, temporary contract employees as defined 
by law. 

2.1.1  Unit members include the following certificated employees: 

Classroom and Resource Teachers 
Special Education Teachers 
Federal/Special Projects Teachers 
Counselors 
Librarians 
Psychologists 
Nurses 
Resource Specialists 
Program Specialists 
Adult Education and other hourly certificated as defined in Article 18.1 

The exclusive representative shall not represent employees who are substitutes, 
part-time hourly employees not working daily and who are employed for less than 
seventy-five (75) percent of the number of days of each school year, management 
or confidential employees listed in Section 2.2.1, or any other employee not 
specifically included in Section 2.1.1. 

2.2.1  Superintendent 

Deputy Superintendent  
Assistant Superintendent 
Directors 
Coordinators 
Principals 
Assistant Principals 

 
3.1 
 

 
3.2 
 

 

  

 

  

 

ARTICLE 3.  Days and Hours of Employment 

Days of Service 

3.1.1  Unit members shall provide one hundred and eighty-five (185) days of 

service during the 2000-2003 school years, as enumerated in the Unit 
Member Service Calendar (Appendix C) for 2000-2001. 

 
3.1.2  Unit members shall provide one hundred and eighty (180) student 

instructional days during the 2000-2003 school years. 

 
3.1.3  When a unit member is required by the District to provide services prior to 

the commencement of, or after the end of, the Unit Member Service 
Calendar, the unit member shall be paid his/her per diem salary rate. 

Hours of Service 

3.2.1  Unit members shall spend such time at school and in school-related 
activities as is necessary to provide for student needs and a quality 
education program. 

3.2.1.1  Unit members shall be present at their respective classrooms, 

assignments or engaged in other school duties, unless otherwise 
directed by their immediate supervisor, no later than thirty (30) 
minutes before their first assignment. 

3.2.1.2  Except where the kindergarten option 2 class size reduction 

program is in effect, unit members teaching Kindergarten classes 
shall be available for assistance in the elementary instructional 
program.  (EC 46118). 

3.2.1.3  Unit members teaching in a 7-12 school shall, regardless of 

teaching assignment, teach the same number of instructional 
minutes required for 9-12 unit members. 

3.2.2 

In instances of emergency, the District shall reserve the right to assign unit 
members responsibilities to protect the health and safety of students; 
however, no unit member shall be required to place his/her life or limb in 
jeopardy. 

3.2.3  The number of instructional minutes per day for students for the 2000-

2003 school year shall be as follows: 

Kindergarten 
Grades 1-3 

 
 

200  Minutes per day 
283  Minutes per day 

Grades 4-6 
Grades 7-8 
Grades 7-12 
Grades 9-12 

 
 
 
 

330  Minutes per day 
328  Minutes per day 
348  Minutes per day 
348  Minutes per day 

The instructional minutes for the 2000-2003 school years shall meet the 
requirements of Education Code Section 46201 - 46206, inclusive.  

 3.2.3.1  Under a District-Union Trust Agreement, (See Appendix D) 
schools may apply for waivers to reconfigure instructional  
minutes for school improvement and staff development through 
the Joint Coordinating Committee for Restructuring. 

3.2.3.1.1  Waivers regarding reconfiguration of instructional 

minutes that have been in place for three or more years 
will remain in effect without an annual waiver unless 
either the District or the Union requests a review of that 
continuing waiver. After three years, schools will 
resubmit waivers for review by the JCCR every three 
years. 

Elementary Conference/Preparation Period 

3.3.1  Each classroom teacher in grades 4-6 shall receive on a weekly basis a 

conference/preparation period equal to sixty (60) consecutive minutes per 
week  (i.e. Wed.).  The on-site workday shall not, however, be reduced as a 
consequence of the conference/preparation time for such members. 

 
3.3.2 

In addition to the conference/preparation time allotted in 3.3.1, each 
classroom teacher in grades 4-6 at the elementary school shall receive, on a 
weekly average basis, conference/preparation time equal to a minimum of 
eighty (80) minutes per week.  Scheduling is to be determined with staff 
involvement. 

Each unit member shall be entitled to a minimum thirty-minute (30) duty-free 
uninterrupted lunch break. 

Each full-time unit member assigned to a regular classroom in grades 7-12 shall 
receive on a weekly basis the equivalent of one (1) planning, preparation, or 
conference period each day. 

Each unit member who works at two (2) or more sites on one (1) day shall have 
sufficient time to travel between work sites. 

 

 
 

 

 
3.3 
 

 
3.4 

3.5 

3.6 

3.7 
 
3.8 

3.9 

General staff/faculty meetings will be limited to three (3) hours per month. 

The District will provide opportunities for unit members to visit one (1) other 
classroom per year, within or outside the District for the purpose of improving 
instruction, with the approval of the principal, who will make the arrangements. 
Non-Classroom Supervision 

It shall be the responsibility of the school principal, with staff involvement, to 
assign non-classroom supervision duties to all school staff (including 
administration) in a fair and equitable manner.  

  

ARTICLE 4.  Union Rights 

The District and the Federation recognize the rights of employees to freely form, 
join, and participate in activities of the representative employee organization. 

The District shall provide reasonable release time for the Union negotiations team 
for the purpose of negotiating an agreement.  Negotiations shall commence 
following the required public notice provisions of the California Government 
Code. 

 

4.2.1        The President of N-MFT and one bargaining unit member will meet with 
the  Assistant  Superintendent,  Fiscal  Services,  or  designee,  at  least  twice 
each  month  to  review  the  budget  status  including  but  not  limited  to 
expenditures, revenue and enrollment. 

4.2.1.1  An annual budget not to exceed $6,000 will be allocated for costs 
associated with release time and/or extra hours for the bargaining 
unit member. 

4.1 

4.2 

 

 

 

 

 
4.3   Communication with Bargaining Unit 
 

4.3.1  The Union may use District mail, telephones, faxes, e-mail and other 
electronic communication devices for direct correspondence to any 
individual. Unit-wide mailings shall be distributed through 
representative(s) of the Union at each site. 

4.3.2  A designated portion of one (1) bulletin board shall be provided to the 
Union for the posting of Union materials/information at each work site 
with certificated employees. 

4.3.3  The Union shall have the right to make brief announcements at faculty 

meetings, provided advance notice is given to the site administrator. 

 
4.3.4  Union representatives may contact unit members prior to and after 

required work hours and during lunch hours. 

 
4.3.5  The Union shall be granted use of District sites/facilities during times other 

than duty hours for Union meetings, provided that: 

4.3.5.1  A Use of Facilities request is filed at the District Office at least 

two (2) business days in advance of the requested use of the site; 

 

4.3.5.2  No other use of the facility has been previously scheduled, 

requested, or granted. 

 
4.3.5.3   Any custodial services which are other than routinely required for 

the day of use shall be paid for by the Union. 

The Union may designate up to (2) elected representatives who shall be granted 
partial service contracts, provided that: 

4.4.1  Any partial service contract is for fifty (50) percent of a regular 

employment contract or more; and 

4.4.2  For elementary unit members, the release time is provided on a semester 
basis unless by mutual agreement both the District and the Union agree 
that the release time does not interrupt the continuity of the educational 
program. 

 
4.4.3  The Union agrees to reimburse the District for costs as provided in 

Education Code Section 44987. 

The Superintendent or his/her designee and Assistant Superintendent of Human 
Resources shall meet with the President and/or Vice President of the Union at 
regularly scheduled intervals and at other times as deemed necessary by either 
party to discuss items of mutual concern. 

 
 4.6  Organizational Security 
 
 
 

4.6.2  Dues Deduction 
 

 
4.4 

 

 

 
4.5 

 

4.6.2.1  As the exclusive bargaining agent, the Federation shall have the 

sole and exclusive right to have membership dues and 
representational service fees deducted for employees in the 
bargaining unit by the District.  The Federation shall provide the 
District with a current schedule of its authorized dues and service 
fees. 

4.6.2.2  The District shall deduct dues from the wages of all full time or 

part time employees who are members of the Federation as of the 
effective date of this Article, or who later sign and deliver to the 
District an authorization form authorizing the deduction of 
membership dues and general assessments in the Federation. It is 
understood that after the effective date of this agreement July 1, 
1994 any current member who resigns from the Federation will 
still be obligated to pay a service fee. 

 

 

 

4.6.2.2.1 

Pursuant to the signed authorization card, the 
District shall deduct one tenth of the dues from the 
regular salary check of the employee each month for 
ten (10) months.  Deductions for employees who 
sign such authorization after the commencement of 
the school year shall be appropriately pro-rated to 
complete payments by the end of the school year. 

 

4.6.2.2.2  A pro rata share of the membership dues or service 

fee shall be deducted for part time employees. 

4.6.2.3  All full-time and part-time bargaining unit members with an 

initial hire date after July 1, 1994, shall either become a member 
of the Federation or pay the Federation a representational 
service fee in an amount not to exceed the periodic dues and 
general assessments of the Federation for the duration of the 
Agreement. 

4.6.2.3.1 

 
4.6.2.3.2 

Employees being reinstated from layoff 
or returning from Leave of Absence 
within 39 months shall be considered 
current employees. 

Those rehired after 39 months will be 
considered to have a new hire date for the 
purpose of this article only. 

Bargaining unit members new to the District shall within thirty 
(30) days from the date they commence their assigned duties 
either become members of the Federation or pay to the 
Federation a representational service fee in an amount equal to 
membership dues and general assessments.  No portion of the 
representational service fee shall be used for political purposes.  
Payment of such fees shall be made either by monthly payroll 
deductions or by cash payment directly to the Federation in one 
lump sum within thirty (30) days of the effective date of 
employment on or before October 1.  In the event that an 
employee shall not pay such fee directly to the Federation, the 
Federation shall notify the District of said failure to pay and the 
District shall begin automatic payroll deduction as provided for 
in Section 45061 of the California Education Code.  There shall 
be no charge to the Federation for mandatory representational 
service fee deduction. 

 
4.6.2.4 

 

The District shall not make service fee deductions from 
employees who are on unpaid status.  

Employees who are members of a religious body whose 
teachings or tenants include objections to joining or financially 
supporting employee organizations shall not be required to join 
or financially support the Federation; except that such employees 
shall have deducted, in lieu of the service fee, a sum equal to such 
service fee to be paid to either the Newport-Mesa Schools 
Foundation, or the United Way Fund, or the Red Cross.  Such 
employees shall submit annually to the Federation a written 
request for exemption.  If a reasonable doubt exists as to the 
validity of the employee's membership in the stated religious 
body, the employee shall submit written verification of 
membership from the religious body. 

 
4.6.2.7  Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit any employee from 

making direct payments to the Federation upon written notice to 
the District and the Federation. 

The District agrees to promptly remit all dues or service fees to 
the Federation along with the alphabetical list of the employees 
for whom such deductions have been made, categorizing them as 
to member or non-member of the Federation, and indicating any 
change in personnel from the list previously furnished. 

4.6.2.5 

 
4.6.2.6 

 
4.6.2.8 

 
4.6.2.9 

 

The Federation agrees to furnish any information needed by the 
District to fulfill the provisions of this Article. 

 
4.6.2.10  The Federation agrees to indemnify and hold the District 

harmless from any legal claim arising out of this representational 
service fee provision subject to the following: 

A.  The Federation agrees to pay all of the District's legal cost 

incurred in defending against any court action and/or 
administrative action before PERB challenging the legality or 
constitutionality of the Organizational Security provisions of 
this Agreement or their implementation. 

 
B.  The Federation shall indemnify the District from any 

judgment for damages or other liability incurred as a result of 
an action brought and sustained against the Organizational 
Security provisions of this Agreement or its implementation. 

 

 
4.7 
 

 

 

 

C.  The Federation shall have the exclusive right to decide and 

determine whether any such action or proceeding referred to 
in 4.6.2.10. A or 4.6.2.10. B of this Article shall or shall not be 
compromised, resisted, defended, or appealed. 

Publications and Documents 

4.7.1  The District shall provide two (2) copies of the complete public agenda and 

supporting materials of the Board of Education through either the District 
mail or the U.S. mail, as directed by the Union.  The distribution of the 
agendas to the Union shall be made on the same day as the material is 
forwarded to the Board. 

 
4.7.2  All materials which are distributed by the Union must contain the date and 

source of such materials.  In a case where only the Union's designation is 
indicated, it is recognized by the parties that the Executive Board of the 
Union shall be responsible for publication. 

 
4.7.3  Directories 

4.7.3.1 

 
4.7.3.2 

 
4.7.3.3 

The parties agree that directories are for the exclusive use and 
convenience of unit members.  Any use for commercial 
purposes, sale or providing of directories to commercial 
enterprises by unit members will be subject to disciplinary 
action. 

The District shall provide one hundred (100) copies of the 
District's directory to the Union for distribution to its members.  
The directory shall contain the names, addresses, and work 
location of District employees, except for that information 
which is omitted at the employee's request. 

The district telephone numbers shall contain the telephone 
number of the Union office. 

4.7.4  The District shall provide to the Union not more than three (3) times per 

year, upon request, the names and addresses of unit members. 

 
4.7.5  Copies of Contract and Ratification Agreement 

4.7.5.1  One (1) copy of this agreement will be provided by the District 
to each unit member upon proper ratification by the bargaining 
unit.  The District will provide the Union with an additional fifty 
(50) copies.  Individuals may request a replacement copy of 
this agreement from the District Personnel Office. 

 
4.7.5.2 

The District will provide sufficient copies of the tentative 
agreement to the Union for their ratification procedures.  The 
Union shall reimburse the District for one-half (1/2) of such 
tentative agreement printing/duplication costs. 

  
 

 
5.1 
 

 
5.2 
 

 
5.3 
 

 
5.4 

 

ARTICLE 5.  Safety Conditions and Educational Environment 

Non-Hazardous Working Conditions 

5.1.1  The District shall take all reasonable steps to provide safe and non-

hazardous working conditions for the employees in order to promote safety 
and well being of the members of the bargaining unit.  To ensure that 
exposure to unsafe conditions is minimized, unit members shall cooperate 
with the District in the implementation of its safety program and shall report 
any unsafe or potentially unsafe conditions to their immediate supervisor.  
OSHA standards shall be the final determinant of Health & Safety 
conditions at the work site. 

Threats and Bodily Harm While on Duty 

5.2.1  Any unit member who is threatened with bodily harm by an individual or 

group, or who suffers such bodily harm, while carrying out his/her assigned 
duties shall promptly make a report to the principal, who shall inform the 
Superintendent.  The principal and the unit member shall jointly inform law 
enforcement authorities. 

 
5.2.2  The District shall provide to the unit member reasonable cooperation in the 
identification of any alleged assailant(s) and/or witness(es) and in securing 
any physical evidence required by the unit member for preparation of a 
civil law suit against the assailant(s). 

District Liability Insurance 

5.3.1  The District shall provide liability insurance protection against any suits 

initiated against the District and its employees for actions or omissions by 
an employee within the normal course and scope of his/her District 
employment.   

Reimbursement for Stolen Property 

5.4.1  The District shall reimburse the unit member for personal property 

damaged or stolen, provided, however, that the site supervisor and the unit 
member agree that the property is a supplement to the instructional 
program, is registered with the immediate supervisor in writing, a value is 
stated at the time of registration, and the damage is not a result of the unit 
member's negligence.  The maximum reimbursement under this section 
shall be fifty dollars ($50) per registered item, unless the site/unit 

administrator indicates the District is willing to assume a greater liability 
for an item. 

Educational Environment 

5.5.1  The District shall make reasonable effort to maintain the temperature in 

each classroom at a level conducive to a good learning environment. 

5.5.2  The District will make a reasonable effort to limit classroom interruptions 

(such as messages, announcements, maintenance) to those that are 
necessary and essential to the operation of the school's day-to-day 
business. 

5.5.3  While on duty, nurses shall be provided with a suitable location to enable 

them to carry out their confidential services in privacy. 

Disaster Preparedness 

5.6.1  Each site shall have a Disaster Preparation Advisor selected by the site 

administrator from among volunteers.  The Disaster Preparation Advisor 
shall receive compensation in an amount equal to one (1) Role and 
Recompense Unit (Appendix B, Section 6.1.1). 

5.6.2  The duties of the Disaster Preparation Advisor shall include working with 
the site administrator and faculty to insure implementation of the District 
Disaster Preparedness Master Plan. 

 
 
 
 
 
5.5 
 

 

 

 
5.6 
 

 

 

  

 
6.1 
 

 

 
6.2 
 

 

 

 

 

 

ARTICLE 6.  Evaluation 

Evaluation:  Purpose and Responsibility 

6.1.1  The intent of the evaluation shall be to maintain and improve the quality of 

the educational program. 

6.1.2  The site and/or unit administrator or his/her designee (who has been 

certified by the Board of Education) is responsible for the evaluation of 
unit members. 

Evaluation Guidelines 

6.2.1  Temporary and Probationary unit members employed for at least 75% of 

the school year shall be evaluated at least twice each school year and 
permanent unit members shall be evaluated at least once in each two-
school-year period. 

6.2.1.1 

6.2.1.2 

The first evaluation of Temporary or Probationary teachers 
shall occur prior to the winter recess.  The final evaluation 
shall be completed no later than thirty days prior to the 
conclusion of the school year. 

Adult Education and other hourly certificated unit members 
employed in categorical programs shall be evaluated in their 
initial year of employment and at least once in each two-
school-year period thereafter. 

6.2.3  Evaluations shall be based upon the N-MUSD Standards for the Teaching 

Profession, guidelines established by the Board of Education for goals, 
objectives, and performance of students and individual school goals and 
objectives as prescribed in Ed Code Section 44662. 

6.2.3.1 All evaluations shall include the following areas from the N-MUSD 

Standards for the Teaching Profession: 

(a) Engaging and supporting all students in Learning 
(b) Creating and maintaining effective environments for 
student learning 
(c) Understanding and organizing subject matter for student 
learning 
(d) Planning instruction and designing learning experiences 
for all students 

(e) Assessing student learning 
(f) Developing as a professional educator 
(g) Related responsibilities 

Steps of the Evaluation 

6.3.1  Planning Phase 

6.3.1.1 

During the planning phase, the evaluator shall indicate the 
criteria for evaluation as identified in 6.2.3 and shall identify 
the evaluator's and the unit member's roles and 
responsibilities during the evaluation period. The unit 
member may submit in writing a statement regarding any 
constraints which he/she believes would hinder his/her 
ability to achieve the goals, objectives, standards, and 
responsibilities upon which the evaluation is to be based.  
Any known supplementary materials to be included in the 
instructional plan shall be identified. 

6.3.1.2 

The planning phase shall be completed prior to the end of 
the sixth (6th) week of school. 

6.3.2  Monitoring Phase 

6.3.2.1 

6.3.2.2 

During the course of the monitoring phase, the evaluator 
shall monitor such activities of the unit member as he/she 
deems necessary to evaluate the unit member's progress 
toward meeting the District Standards for the Teaching 
Profession and other evaluation criteria as identified in 
6.2.2.  This monitoring phase shall include such 
observations as the evaluator feels necessary and such 
conferences as either the evaluator or unit member feels 
necessary. 

If the evaluator indicates to a permanent unit member that 
improvement is required in meeting the N-MUSD 
Standards for the Teaching Profession and other evaluation 
criteria enumerated in 6.2.2, the evaluator shall indicate in 
writing to the unit member the following improvement plan: 

6.3.2.2.1 

Areas where improvement is needed; 

 
 
 
 
 
6.3 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6.3.2.2.2 

Specific suggestions for improvement; 

6.3.2.2.3 

6.3.2.2.4 

6.3.2.2.5 

 
6.3.2.2.6 

Additional resources which may be utilized 
by the unit member to assist with 
improvement; 

The evaluator's role in assisting the unit 
member in improving; 

Techniques which will be used by the 
evaluator in measuring improvement.  The 
unit member may require up to four (4) 
observations to be used as a measuring 
technique; and 

The time schedule to be used by the 
evaluator in future monitoring.  The time 
schedule may extend to a subsequent school 
year. 

6.3.2.3        The unit member shall take such remedial action as is necessary 

to correct any deficiencies which are cited by the immediate 
supervisor.   

 
6.3.2.4        The unit member may voluntarily participate in the Peer 

Partners program to receive support from a consulting teacher 
in meeting the N-MUSD Standards for the Teaching 
Profession. 

6.3.2.5       The unit member shall have the opportunity to initiate a written 

response to the improvement plan.  Such response shall 
become a permanent attachment to the evaluation and shall be 
placed in the unit member's District personnel file.  If 
subsequent remedial action does eliminate the deficiencies, 
such improvement shall be noted in the final evaluation. 

6.3.2.6        Electronic or mechanical recording or listening devices shall not 

be used in the evaluation of a unit member without the unit 
member's consent. 

6.3.2.7        Conclusions relative to an improvement plan shall not be 

included in a final evaluation unless the improvement plan 
commenced at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the final 
evaluation. 

 
 
 

 

 
6.4 
 

 

 

6.3.3  Final Evaluation Phase 

6.3.3.1 

 
6.3.3.2 

Unit members shall receive their final evaluation no later 
than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the close of the 
school year in which they are evaluated. 

A meeting between the evaluator and the unit member shall 
be held regarding the final evaluation no later than the last 
school day on the Unit Member Service Calendar.  The unit 
member may be accompanied by a Union representative at 
conferences held subsequent to the final evaluation 
conference.  All evaluations shall be submitted to the 
District personnel file at the close of the school year, and all 
meetings and conferences shall be held prior to that time. 

6.3.3.3  A unit member who receives an unsatisfactory evaluation in the 
areas of teaching methods/instruction or content knowledge shall 
be placed in the  
N-MUSD Peer Assistance and Review program, as prescribed in 
Education Code Section 44664 (b) and Article 7 of this contract. 

 
6.3.3.4             The unit member shall have the opportunity to initiate a 
written response to the final evaluation.  Such response 
shall become a permanent attachment to the evaluation and 
shall be placed in the unit member's District personnel file. 

Alternative Evaluation 

6.4.1       The alternative teacher evaluation process is designed to increase 

opportunities for professional growth available to the District's tenured 
teaching staff.  It serves as an alternative to the traditional performance 
evaluation process to encourage accomplished teachers to continue their 
professional development and personal growth.  The evaluation options 
provide flexibility, permitting teachers to grow in self-chosen areas of 
interest. 

6.4.2  Participants will be tenured teachers who have consistently demonstrated 

competence in previous evaluations, and who wish to engage in a 
personalized program of professional growth.  There will be no limitation 
on the number of participants at each site.  The principal and teacher may 
determine a mutually agreeable alternative evaluation option. 

 

 

 

6.4.3  Participating teachers will set meaningful goals which will serve as a focus 

for their professional growth, and establish suitable criteria for the 
evaluation of that growth. 

6.4.4  At a conference held prior to November 1, the teacher and the 

administrator will agree on these goals, the evaluation option, and the 
criteria for evaluation. 

6.4.5  General Guidelines 

6.4.5.1 

 

 

Teachers and administrators are encouraged to be creative 
in developing new or innovative options for use as 
evaluative tools.  A wide variety of evaluation designs are 
possible.  Some possible options are: 
 
Portfolio:  A portfolio serves as a compilation of materials 
selected by the teacher to create a record of actions taken 
and progress made in meeting his/her goals.  Sample 
inclusions may be a log of activities, samples of student 
work, examples of newly developed curriculum, 
photographs, video tapes, or student evaluations of 
activities related to the teacher's professional growth goals. 

Reflective Journal:  A journal may serve as a mirror for a 
teacher's experience in the classroom.  The act of written 
reflection upon one's teaching can focus efforts to refine 
teaching skills and lead to solutions for specific instructional 
challenges. 
 
Peer Coaching:  The purpose of the peer coach is to provide 
effective feedback on the teacher's progress toward 
professional growth goals through a series of meetings 
which may include pre-observation conferences, classroom 
observation, and discussion.  The peer coach is selected by 
the teacher with the approval of the administrator.  The 
teacher may also participate in the Peer Partners program. 

Classroom Action Research:  The teacher will select and 
identify a specific concept, instructional strategy, or 
theoretical approach to be studied in the classroom.  The 
action research will involve an in-depth study of the effects 
of implementing a particular practice in the classroom 

National Board Certification:  Participation in the National 
Board Certification program meets the requirements of this 

article and is recognized as one of the highest forms of 
professional development as an educator. 

6.4.6  Assessment of Outcomes 

6.4.6.1 

In the planning process the teacher and administrator will 
determine the monitoring schedule.  Prior to the end of the 
year, the teacher and administrator will meet to  review the 
teacher’s progress.  A written report summarizing the 
alternative plan and results shall be placed in the teacher’s 
file. 

6.4.7 
may  

In the event that the alternative evaluation plan proves to be impractical, it 

be discontinued by mutual consent of the teacher and administrator, and 
evaluation will revert to the standard District practice. 

Personnel Files 

6.5.1  A District personnel file shall be maintained at the District Office. 

6.5.1.1 

6.5.1.2 

The District personnel file shall contain the evaluation of the 
unit member’s performance and any attachments as 
provided in this Article. 

Access to the files shall be limited to the unit member, 
persons authorized in writing by the unit member, or 
authorized District personnel.  Records shall be maintained 
with each personnel file indicating purpose, date, and 
name(s) of person(s) to whom the file was released.  Such 
records shall not be required of each person responsible for 
the file nor for clerical entries or routine filing of material. 

6.5.1.2.1 

Materials in the file shall be made available 
for inspection by the unit member provided, 
however, that such inspection is not to 
include ratings, reports, or records which 
were (1) obtained prior to the employment 
of the person involved, (2) prepared by 
identifiable examination committee 
members, or (3) obtained in connection with 
promotional examinations. 

 

 

 

 
6.5 
 
 
 

 

 

 

6.5.1.3 

At the unit member’s request, one (1) copy of evaluation 
materials in a unit member’s personnel file, with the 
exception of materials exempted by 6.5.1.2.1, shall be 
provided by the District free of charge if copies have not 
previously been provided.  At a unit member’s request, 
duplicates of evaluation material previously provided shall 
be made available at an amount equal to the District’s cost. 

6.5.2  A site/unit personnel file may be maintained by the site/unit administrator. 

6.5.2.1 

The site/unit personnel file shall be maintained in or 
adjacent to the office of the site/unit administrator in a 
locked cabinet. 

6.5.2.2  

The file may contain only the following materials: 

6.5.2.3 

6.5.2.4 

Access to the site/unit personnel file shall be regulated as 
provided in 6.5.1.2 and 6.5.1.2.1. 

Any materials used in the evaluation process, but not 
placed in the District personnel file, shall be removed and 
destroyed at the conclusion of the school year. 

6.5.3  Entries/Retention of Materials in Personnel Files 

6.5.3.1 

Information of a derogatory nature, except for materials 
exempted by 6.5.1.2.1, shall not be entered or filed until the 
unit member is given notice and an opportunity to review 
and comment thereon.  The employee shall have the right to 
enter and have attached to any such derogatory statement 
his/her own comments thereon.  Such review shall take 
place during normal business hours of the District and the 
employee may be released, at the employee’s option, from 
duty for this purpose without salary reduction. 

6.5.3.1.1 

The unit member shall be informed of such 
information within ten (10) working days of 

progress; 

6.5.2.2.1 

Materials necessary to an evaluation in 

6.5.2.2.2 
6.5.2.2.3 

6.5.2.2.4 

Copies of previous evaluations; 
Correspondence between the administrator 
and the unit member; and 
Other materials which are routine in nature 
and which are not derogatory. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the relevant incident or within ten (10) 
working days of when the administrator 
could reasonably be expected to have 
knowledge of the relevant incident. 

6.5.3.1.2 

The unit member shall be informed of 
his/her right to respond. 

Materials proven false or inaccurate shall be removed from 
the personnel file. 

The unit member or evaluator shall have the right to include 
in the personnel file any material or information germane to 
the unit member’s professional and related responsibilities.  
All materials in the personnel files shall be related to the 
unit member’s assigned duties or professional 
responsibilities and shall be signed and dated by the 
originator of the material. 

6.5.3.2 

6.5.3.3 

6.5.3.4  

Anonymous letters or memoranda shall not be placed in the 

6.5.3.5 

Derogatory materials may be removed at the unit member’s 
request after four (4) years. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

files. 
 

ARTICLE 7.  Peer Assistance And Review 

 
The District and the Federation agree to work together to develop a structure to coordinate 
a comprehensive staff development program.  The goals will be to optimize staff 
development for all certificated employees and to maximize funding.  To accomplish that 
goal, the District and the Federation will explore establishing a new or modifying the 
current District/Federation Trust Agreement.  One component of a comprehensive staff 
development program that the District and the Federation mutually agree is important is a 
Peer Assistance and Review program. 
 
On April 6, 1999, Governor Davis signed AB 1X, the California Peer Assistance and 
Review Program (PAR), which took effect July 1, 1999.  The Legislature declared the 
purpose of the legislation was to establish a teacher/peer assistance and review system as 
a critical feedback mechanism that allows exemplary teachers to assist veteran teachers in 
need of improvement in subject matter knowledge or teaching strategies or both.  This 
legislation specifically outlines the parameters for teacher professional development and 
support through a peer assistance and review program. 
 
Believing that improving the quality of teaching is the key to a strong, vital educational 
system, the Newport-Mesa Federation of Teachers and the Newport-Mesa Unified School 
District envision creating a professional development program to support each teacher 
who strives to become an exemplary teacher.  The scope of the staff development 
program will be to provide a seamless support system for teachers from induction 
through retirement. 
 
The purpose of the PAR program is to provide teachers with a peer support system to 
assist them in achieving their professional goals and in meeting the California State 
Teaching Standards.  Working collaboratively the Federation and District will provide 
funding and appropriate contract language to support continual professional growth for all 
instructional staff.  That support will begin with an induction program to orient and 
prepare new teachers for a successful career in teaching and continue through assisting 
teachers who wish to meet the requirements for National Board certification. 
 
The PAR program will provide teachers with a consulting teacher and a support plan 
based on their individualized needs.  For teachers referred to the program due to an 
unsatisfactory evaluation, PAR will provide intensive, ongoing support with periodic 
reports on their achievements toward mutual goals for a period up to two years.   
Teachers can also voluntarily request assistance from Peer Partners any time they need 
support for such things as grade level changes, classroom management, meeting 
components of the N-MUSD Teaching Standards, or other areas of need. 
 

and Review Program will be administered by a Joint Committee which 
shall consist of seven members.  Four members shall be certificated 
classroom teachers chosen by the Federation.  The District shall select 
three administrators to serve on the Joint Committee.  To promote 
continuity, the members of the Joint Committee shall serve staggered 
three-year terms.  The Joint Committee shall have the latitude to call on 
additional resources as appropriate.  The Chairperson of the Joint 
Committee will be selected annually by the Joint Committee. In 2000-
2001, the position of Chair shall be a teacher. Any vacancy on the Joint 
Committee shall be promptly filled by the District or the Federation, as 
appropriate. 

 
7.1.2  DECISION MAKING PROCESS:  The Joint Committee shall make all 

decisions through consensus.  Five of the seven Joint Committee members 
shall constitute a quorum for purposes of meeting and conducting 
business.   The deliberations of the Joint Committee shall be closed and 
confidential. 

In implementing the PAR support program, the Federation and the District are jointly 
contributing to a culture of continual improvement for teachers in a supportive, risk-free 
environment. 
 
The tenants and conditions under which the PAR program will operate are contained in 
the article that follows: 
 
 
 
7.1 
 

Joint Committee for PAR Governance 

7.1.1  COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND SELECTION:  The Peer Assistance 

 
7.1.3  CONFLICT OF INTEREST:  A Joint Committee member shall neither 
participate in discussion nor vote on any matter in which he/she has a 
professional or personal conflict of interest.  In the event that one of the 
Joint Committee members is the administrator who has deemed that a 
participating teacher’s performance is unsatisfactory he or she shall 
remove himself or herself from the Panel during consideration and review 
of that participating teacher’s case. 

 
7.1.4  COMPENSATION:  The Joint Committee's meetings will be scheduled 

and take place as determined by the Joint Committee, with a minimum of 
four (4) meetings annually.  Should meetings occur during the workday, 
teachers who are members of the Joint Committee shall be released from 
their regular duties to attend meetings, without loss of pay or benefits.  
Should meetings or other responsibilities occur after the regular workday, 
teachers will be compensated at the miscellaneous hourly rate established 

in the current contract.  Should full day meetings or training occur outside 
the regular work calendar, Joint Community members will be 
compensated at $275.00 per day.  For the 2000-2001 school year, teachers 
on the Joint Committee shall receive additional compensation of $5,400 
per year and $275 per day for work or training conducted outside the 
regular work calendar.  For the 2001-2002 school year and beyond, the 
Joint Committee members shall recommend to the District and Federation 
the stipend amount for the following year, with final approval of that 
stipend determined through the collective bargaining process between the 
District and Federation.   

7.1.5.1 

Develop internal operating procedures and recommend a 
budget for the PAR program.  The operating procedures 
shall be consistent with the Collective Bargaining 
Agreement and the law pertaining to peer assistance and 
review.  

7.1.5.2            Annually submit a budget to the Superintendent for Board 

of Education approval. 

7.1.5.3            Provide on an ongoing basis to bargaining unit members 
and administrators orientation materials and information 
regarding the PAR program and any pertinent forms 
pertaining to the implementation of PAR through flyers, 
brochures, web pages, and presentations at staff meetings. 

7.1.5.4       Provide annual training for the Joint Committee members 

and Consulting Teachers. 

7.1.5.5          Determine the number of Consulting Teachers for any 

school year based upon the participation in the Peer 
Assistance and Review Program and other relevant 
considerations.  Recommend to Human Resources the 
number of Consulting Teachers and subject area experts in 
any school year to assist in hiring replacements for those 
positions as needed. 

7.1.5.6          Establish a procedure for the application and selection as a 
Consulting Teacher.  The Committee shall also determine 
the term of service for Consulting Teachers and put in place 
a procedure for removal of a Consulting Teacher. 

7.1.5.7  Provide training for Consulting Teachers 

7.1.5  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  The Joint Committee shall: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.1.5.8          Select the Consulting Teacher and the appropriate 

support/resources for the Referred Participating Teacher and 
for the selected Volunteer Participating Teacher. 

7.1.5.9          Review each referral to determine whether acceptance into 

the Peer Partner Program is appropriate. 

7.1.5.10      Provide written notice to the Participating Teacher who will 

be his/her appointed Consulting Teacher.  Copies of said 
notice will also be submitted to the Consulting Teacher and 
evaluating administrator. 

7.1.5.11      Evaluate the effectiveness of Consulting Teachers. Removal 
shall be at the discretion of the Joint Committee.  The Joint 
Committee shall provide the Consulting Teacher with a 
written statement of the reasons for removal and meet with 
the Consulting Teacher to discuss the reasons upon request. 

7.1.5.12      Review the report prepared by the Consulting Teacher and 
forward the names of individuals to the Board of Education 
who do not make significant improvement toward meeting 
expectations in the Peer Assistance and Review Program. 

7.1.5.13  Evaluate annually the impact of the Peer Assistance and 

Review Program and develop recommendations to improve 
the Program as per Education Code Section 44502.2.D.  
That report will be shared with the District and the 
Federation. 

7.1.5.14    Forward to the Human Resources Division by June 30 of 

each year formative and summative reports relative to 
Referred Participating Teachers in the PAR Program.  These 
records shall be filed separately from the individual 
personnel records with the exception of the Consulting 
Teacher’s final report.  Access to the records filed 
separately in Human Resources Office will be made 
available only to the Participating Teacher, current 
evaluator, and Human Resource administrator. Should a 
teacher be referred for an additional year to PAR, these 
records will be made available to the Joint Committee and 
current Consulting Teacher.  Either the evaluator or the 
Referred Participating Teacher may choose to have the 
Consulting Teacher’s final report included in the annual 
evaluation. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.1.5.15     Members of the Joint Committee may be 

recommended to the appointing group (Federation or 
District) for removal from office for lack of attendance at 
required meetings, breach of confidentiality, or other 
behaviors contrary to the purpose and effective operation of 
the Committee. 

Consulting Teachers 

7.2.1       A Consulting Teacher is a teacher who provides assistance to a 

Participating Teacher in the Peer Assistance and Review Program.  
Consulting Teachers shall possess the following qualifications: 
 
7.2.1.1  Credentialed as a classroom teacher with permanent status; 
 
7.2.1.2  Minimum of five (5) years of recent classroom teaching experience 

in the District and a minimum of seven (7) years K-12 classroom 
experience;  

7.2.1.3  Demonstrated exemplary teaching ability as measured by the N-

MUSD Standards for the Teaching Profession; 

7.2.1.4  Demonstrated effective communication skills; 

7.2.1.5  Demonstrated ability to build trust and work cooperatively with 

teachers, administrators and others. 

7.2.2       TERM OF SERVICE:  The term of service for Consulting Teachers will be 

three years contingent on annual renewal by the Joint Committee.  A 
Consulting Teacher shall return to a classroom assignment for a minimum 
of one year before reapplying to be a Consulting Teacher.  

 
7.2.3       RIGHT TO RETURN:  If a Consulting Teacher’s assignment involves 

being released from the classroom, upon completion of the assignment, 
the teacher may return to the school (and department and level) in which 
the teacher taught before assuming the Consulting Teacher position.  If 
there is no appropriate opening or if the Consulting Teacher chooses not to 
return to his/her previous site, that Consulting Teacher shall have first 
priority to open positions within the District for which he/she is qualified. 

7.2.4       DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  The Consulting Teacher shall 

provide assistance to Participating Teachers in improving instructional 
performance.  This assistance may include, but not be limited to, direct and 
indirect support both inside and outside the classroom.  The Consulting 

 
 
7.2 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
7.3 
 

Teacher will develop a cooperative relationship with the evaluating 
administrator that will support the Participating Teacher’s improvement on 
the collaboratively developed Individual Performance Plan.  Consulting 
Teachers will be required to attend training programs designed to prepare 
them for their role. 

7.2.5       APPLICATION:  Each Applicant for the position of Consulting Teacher is 

required to submit a completed application that includes a minimum of 
five references from individuals with specific knowledge of his or her 
expertise and/or classroom practice. One of the references will be from an 
administrator and another from an NMFT representative.  All applications 
and references shall be treated with confidentiality. 

7.2.6       SELECTION:  Consulting Teachers shall be selected by consensus of the 
Joint Committee after candidates have had classroom observations by at 
least three members of the Joint Committee. 

7.2.7       HOURS/WORK DAY:  Consulting Teachers may be full-time release, 

part-time release, or stipended for work after regular working hours.  
Consulting Teachers who are not full-time release, with prior approval by 
the Joint Committee, shall be released from regular duties without loss of 
pay or benefits when it is necessary to carry out their responsibilities 
during the school day.  Training for Consulting Teachers will take place on 
a combination of release time and non-work time, with appropriate 
compensation. 

7.2.8       COMPENSATION:  Full-time released Consulting Teachers will receive an 

annual stipend of $5,400.00 and be paid a daily rate of $275.00 for duty 
days served outside the regular work calendar.  (Part-time consulting 
teacher stipend to be negotiated.) 

7.2.9       CASELOAD:  The caseload for the Consulting Teachers will be developed 

by the Joint Committee.  A weighted value per type of participant will be 
factored into the determination of caseload. 

Referred Participating Teacher 

7.3.1  A Referred Participating Teacher is an experienced teacher with permanent 

status who is referred to the PAR program as the result of an 
unsatisfactory evaluation in areas 1-6 of the N-MUSD Standards for the 
Teaching Profession.  Referred Participating Teachers shall be notified by 
the Joint Committee in writing of their placement in the program and the 
Consulting Teacher assigned to them. For Referred Participating Teachers 

  

 

 

 

 

 

with an unsatisfactory evaluation in standards 1 through 6 of the N-MUSD 
Standards for the Teaching Profession, the process for peer assistance and 
review will be as follows: 

7.3.1.1  The evaluating administrator identifies a Referred Participating 

Teacher through an unsatisfactory evaluation as defined in Article 
6, Section 2, of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.  The 
evaluator shall provide specific written recommendations for 
improvement in the summative evaluation. The evaluator shall 
continue to be solely responsible for the participating teacher’s 
evaluation.   

 
7.3.1.2  The evaluator and the assigned Consulting Teacher shall meet with 

the Participating Teacher to discuss the recommended areas of 
improvement and the types of assistance to be provided by the 
Consulting Teacher as requested by any one of the parties. The 
document produced as a result of this meeting is the Individual 
Improvement Plan (IPP). 

7.3.1.3  The Consulting Teacher shall assist the Participating Teacher in 

improving in the areas identified by the IPP. The Consulting 
Teacher will review the IPP, provide assistance in these areas and 
conduct multiple observations of the Participating Teacher.  

7.3.1.4  If a teacher in the PAR Program receives written progressive 

discipline notice, i.e. letter of warning, reprimand, etc. in area(s) 
identified in the IPP, that written material provided to the teacher 
should be provided to the Consulting Teacher within ten (10) days. 

7.3.1.5  By April 10th, the Consulting Teacher shall prepare an annual 
written report that describes: (1) the assistance provided to the 
Participating Teacher; and (2) the results of the assistance in the 
targeted areas.  This report shall be submitted to the Joint 
Committee, the Participating Teacher, and the evaluator. 

7.3.1.6  By May 1, the Joint Committee shall report in writing to the 

participating teacher, evaluating administrator, the Federation, and 
Board of Education that either: 

a)     The permanent teacher has demonstrated satisfactory 

improvement in meeting the goals identified in the Individual 
Performance Plan and will no longer be a required participant in 
PAR; or 

 

b)     The intervention be extended to a second year because 

significant progress is being made toward meeting goals set in 
the Individual Improvement Plan, although the permanent 
teacher may not have yet demonstrated proficiency in the 
NMUSD Standards for the Teaching Profession; or 

c)     The Joint Committee does not recommend further assistance 

and remediation through the PAR program.  Documentation of 
the support provided to this teacher shall be submitted with this 
recommendation.  The District may continue to employ the 
teacher, or may, at its discretion, initiate dismissal proceedings. 

 

7.3.1.7 Nothing herein shall modify or in any manner affect the rights of 

the District and/or Board of Education under provisions of 
Education Code relating to the employment, classification, 
retention or non-reelection of certificated employees.  Nothing 
herein shall modify or affect the District's right to issue notices (of 
unsatisfactory performance and/or unprofessional conduct) 
pursuant to Education Code section 44938. 

 

 

 

 

 
7.4    Referred Teacher Due Process Rights 

 
7.4.1       The referred teacher shall be entitled to review all reports generated by the 
Consulting Teacher and evaluating administrator prior to their submission 
to the Joint Committee, and to have his/her comments attached.  To 
effectuate this right, the Consulting Teacher shall provide the referred 
teacher being reviewed with copies of such reports at least five (5) working 
days prior to the meeting of the Joint Committee at which the reports will 
be considered.  A referred teacher shall not have access to the grievance 
process to challenge the contents of reports or recommendations of the 
Consulting Teacher or Joint Committee as per Article 16.1.2 of this 
agreement, but may file responses that shall become part of the official 
record of the assistance.   

 
7.4.2       The teacher being referred shall have the opportunity to make a 

presentation to the Joint Committee. 

7.4.3       The referred teacher shall have the right to be represented by N-MFT in 

any meetings of the Joint Committee to which he/she is called and shall be 
given an opportunity to present his/her point of view concerning any 
report being presented.   

7.4.4       The referred teacher shall have the right to present reasons in writing to the 

Joint Committee why a specific Consulting Teacher should be replaced 

 

 
7.5 
 

 

 

 

 

 
7.6 
 

and another Consulting Teacher substituted and to have those reasons 
considered.   

7.4.5       The record of this assistance will be sealed within the personnel file after 

four (4) years, if there have been no subsequent incidents of unsatisfactory 
service during said period. 

Voluntary Participating Teachers (Peer Partners) 

7.5.1  A Volunteer Participating Teacher is a teacher who volunteers to 

participate in the Peer Partners component of the PAR program.  For 
Voluntary Participating Teachers, the outline of the program shall be as 
follows: 
 
7.5.1.1  The Voluntary Participating Teacher may apply to the Joint 

Committee to be assigned to work with a Consulting Teacher to 
improve current skills in a particular curriculum area or to improve 
and/or develop teaching methodologies and instructional strategies.  
The Voluntary Participating Teacher may request to be assigned to 
a specific Consulting Teacher. 

7.5.1.2  Upon assignment, the Consulting Teacher shall meet with the 

Voluntary Participating Teacher to develop a plan for voluntary 
assistance including a time line for completing the goals.  This plan 
shall not be shared with any administrator without written 
permission of the Voluntary Participating Teacher. 

7.5.1.3  The results of the individual’s voluntary participation shall be 

shared with the Joint Committee for their annual evaluation of the 
PAR program, but shall not be forwarded to the evaluating 
administrator, District or Federation.  All records of participation in 
the Peer Partners program are the sole property of the Voluntary 
Participating Teacher. 

7.5.1.4  Participation on a voluntary basis may be terminated at any time by 

the Voluntary Participating Teacher.   

7.5.1.5  Participation as a Voluntary Participating Teacher shall not be in 

lieu of the regular evaluation of the teacher pursuant to Article Six 
of the NMUSD-NMFT Collective Bargaining Agreement. 

Records/Confidentiality 

7.6.1       All documents and information relating to participation in this program 

shall be considered personnel matters subject to the personnel record 

exemption of the California Public Records Act (Government Code 
Section 6250, et seq.).  The annual evaluation of the program's impact, 
excluding information on identifiable individuals, is subject to disclosure 
under the Public Records Act. 

 
7.6.2       All proceedings and materials related to the administration of this article 
shall be strictly confidential.  Therefore, Joint Committee members and 
Consulting Teachers may disclose such information only as necessary to 
administer this article. 

7.6.3       All documents relating to the selection process of Consulting Teachers 

shall be treated as confidential and will not be disclosed except as may be 
required by law. 

7.6.4       All documents for the Peer Assistance and Review Program will be filed 

by the Human Resource Office separately from individual personnel 
records, except as specified herein. 

Budget 

7.7.1       Budgeted resources of the program shall first be allocated to assist/support 

Referred Participating Teachers required to participate under Section IV, 
and as available to Voluntary Participating Teachers under Section VI. 

 
7.7.2       The recommended budget shall be funded by the California Peer 

Assistance and Review Program for Teachers, recognizing that the primary 
reason for the California Peer Assistance and Review Program for 
Teachers is to provide direct assistance to permanent teachers who have 
received an unsatisfactory evaluation.   

7.7.3       The proposed budget shall take into consideration 1) the number of 

consulting teachers which will be required based on the projected level of 
participation in the program, and 2) the recommendations for 
improvement of the PAR program made by the Joint Committee in their 
annual report to the Board and Federation.  It is also specifically 
recognized that funds from the California Peer Assistance and Review 
Program may be expended for any of the programs authorized by 
Education Code section 44506(a). 

7.7.4       Beginning with the 2000-2001 school year, by April 15 the PAR program 

plan/budget will be submitted to the Federation President and the 
Superintendent or designee for approval.  If the plan/budget is not 
approved by both parties, it may be modified by mutual agreement.  By 
May 15, if the parties cannot reach agreement to either approve or to 
modify the plan/budget, then the plan/budget will be submitted as drafted 

 

 

 
7.7 
 

 

 

by the Joint Committee for Board of Education approval and inclusion in 
the Tentative All Funds District Budget approved annually in June. 

7.7.5       At the conclusion of the each fiscal year, if revenue exceeds expenditures, 
the District and the Federation shall meet to determine the allocation of the 
surplus in a manner that facilitates the purposes of the PAR program and 
the staff development needs of the District. 

7.7.6       In the event that the State no longer funds the PAR program, it is 

understood and agreed that the PAR program will be evaluated, along with 
other staff development programs, and be considered for continued 
funding with available staff development monies as per budget goals and 
priorities. 

7.7.7       The cost of releasing Consulting Teacher full-time for service in the 

program shall be computed on the basis of the average entry-level teacher 
step and column placement, plus benefits and fixed costs. 

Status and Liability Protection of Unit Members 

7.8.1       Functions performed by teachers under this article shall not constitute 

either management or supervisory functions as defined in the Educational 
Employment Relations Act. 

 
7.8.2       Unit members who perform functions as Consulting Teachers or members 

of the Joint Committee shall have the same protection from liability and 
access to appropriate defense as afforded to other public school employees 
pursuant to Division 3.6 (commencing with Section 810) of the California 
Government Code. 

 
Term 

The provisions of this Article shall be in effect from June 30, 2000, through June 
30, 2003.  The provisions of the Article shall be subject to bargaining during the 
term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement at the request of either party.  Any 
claim of violation, misapplication, or misinterpretation of a specific provision of 
this Article shall be subject to the grievance procedure in the Collective Bargaining 
Agreement in effect between the parties. 

 

 

 

 
7.8 
 

 

7.9 
 

 
 

 
8.4 
follows: 
 

 
8.1 

 

 
8.2 

 
8.3 

 

 

 

 

 
8.5 

 

ARTICLE 8.  Class Size 

The District shall make reasonable effort to meet the following pupil/classroom 
teacher averages per school site with the exception of any classes participating in a 
state or federal class size reduction program: 

K-5/6 — twenty-nine (29) (exclusive of Special Education) 

The District shall make reasonable efforts to limit K-3 combination classes to a 
maximum of twenty-seven (27) students. 

Special Education classes shall not exceed the class sizes as required by state law 
and/or state regulations. 

Class size criteria for grades 7-12 are based upon a five (5) period teaching day as 

8.4.1   Unit members who teach academic classes shall have no more than one 

hundred and eighty (180) students per day. 

8.4.2   Unit members who teach Physical Education shall have no more than two 

hundred and fifty (250) students per day. 

8.4.3  Unit members may sign waivers to add students when those students 

exceed the maximum. 

8.4.4  The above maximums shall be accomplished by the District within twenty 

(20) working days after the beginning of any new class. 

8.4.5  No class shall have an enrollment that exceeds the number of permanent 

workstations.  In science classes a maximum of four (4) temporary 
workstations may be added.  Temporary workstations will be removed by 
the end of the first quarter unless the unit member voluntarily signs the 
waiver identified in Section 8.4.3. 

Effective September 1, 1991, in an effort to share information, enhance staff 
involvement, and to address class size, the District shall implement the following 
procedures: 

8.5.1  By the end of the third week of the fall and spring semesters, Information 
Services 

shall generate a class size report for each school site and submit this report 
to each site principal. This report will be shared with the entire certificated 
staff of that site for review. 

 

 

 

8.5.1.1 

8.5.1.2 

8.5.1.3 

For elementary schools, the site principal, with staff 
involvement, shall provide written rationale for any classes 
greater than 32 or less than 24 at the K-3 level, and greater 
than 34 or less than 26 at the 4-5/6 level (excluding PE, 
music, drama). 

For secondary schools, the site principal, with staff 
involvement, shall provide written rationale for any classes 
greater than 36 or less than 20 (excluding PE, music, 
drama).  At the secondary level, schools that are scheduled 
on other than a five-period teaching day will have the class 
maximum and minimums adjusted accordingly. 

This written report will be made available to staff of 
respective sites and submitted to the Assistant 
Superintendent or designee who will make the reports 
available to the N-MFT president. 

  

 
9.1 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
9.2 
 

 

 

ARTICLE 9.  Transfers 

Definition 

9.1.1  Transfer  —  movement, either voluntary or involuntary, of a unit member 
from one school site to another; or, the movement of a unit member from 
one certificated classification to another certificated classification (i.e., 
from one classification to another of the following:  classroom teacher, 
nurse, counselor, psychologist, traveling teacher, librarian, psychometrist, 
or speech and language specialist.) 

9.1.2  Vacancy — a position which the District intends to fill by August 15.  Unit 

members who have submitted written requests for transfers shall be 
notified of openings that occur after August 15, prior to candidate 
selection. 

9.1.3  Voluntary Transfer — a transfer by direct application of the unit member.   

9.1.4 

Involuntary Transfer — a transfer which is initiated as a result of decline in 
enrollment or program reduction or elimination 

9.1.5  Day — a day when the District Offices are open, except during winter and 

spring recess. 

9.1.6  For the purposes of this article seniority shall be defined as the number of 
continuous service years in the District from the initial date of hire.  This 
has no correlation with the number of years used for salary placement.  An 
authorized leave of absence shall not constitute a break in continuous 
service. 

Transfer Conditions 

9.2.1  Any unit member may apply for any announced vacancy and shall be 

considered for that vacancy as provided in this article. 

9.2.2   Except with the unit member’s agreement, unit members shall not be 

transferred to a position outside their credential authorization and either (1) 
college major or minor or (2) previous teaching or non-teaching experience 
for which he/she possessed reasonable qualifications. 

9.2.3  Qualifications and criteria as established in a vacancy notice/transfer 

determination shall not be made with the intent of limiting selection to an 
individual. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
9.3 
 

 

9.2.4 

In the case of an unassigned unit member who has not applied for or been 
selected for a vacant position prior to August 15, the District may assign 
that unit member to any announced vacancy for which he/she is qualified 
as defined in 9.2.2. 

9.2.5  No unit member shall be involuntarily transferred with the intent of 

creating a vacancy for another unit member. 

9.2.6  Preparation for Transfers 

9.2.6.1 

9.2.6.2 

9.2.6.3 

9.2.6.4 

If a unit member is transferred during the time school is in 
session, the unit member shall be released from teaching 
responsibilities for a period of two days for moving and 
preparing for the new assignment. 

The District shall transport all materials being moved from 
one school site to another, provided that the transferee shall 
identify such materials for movement.  Unit members shall 
not be required to package and label District materials to be 
moved except in cases where the unit member has 
requested, and received permission from the on-site 
manager, to move said District materials to a new site.  
Assistance will be arranged within a reasonable time by the 
on-site manager. 

It shall be the responsibility of the transferee to leave the 
vacated room in clean condition with all obsolete materials 
labeled for removal. 

The room to which the transferee is moving shall be in 
clean condition with all obsolete materials removed. 

Vacancy Posting 

9.3.1  The District shall post all vacancies which it intends to fill for a period of 

not less than ten (10) working days.  Posting of such vacancy notices shall 
be made at each site where certificated unit members are employed.  The 
immediate supervisor or his/her designee shall date when the posting 
notice was made.  A special bulletin board or a designated location will be 
set aside to be used exclusively for postings of vacancies and is to be 
labeled as such.  The School Site Administrative Assistant shall also keep a 
notebook with all postings of vacancies. 

 

 

 
9.4 
 

 

 

 

 

9.3.1.1 

9.3.1.2 

On-site managers shall notify their staff of all adjunct duties 
available on that individual campus prior to filling them. 

From August 15th to October 1, the ten (10) day posting 
notice shall be waived.  Transfer applicants who have a 
current transfer request on file, shall be notified of available 
vacancies by telephone and/or certified mail. 

9.3.2  The vacancy notice shall include the position title; required qualifications 

for the position; criteria to be used by the immediate supervisor in the 
selection of an applicant; a brief description of the position assignments 
and duties when appropriate; the site(s) where the unit member will be 
assigned, if known; the deadline for filing applications for the vacancy; and 
the date when the assignment will begin. 

Voluntary Transfer 

9.4.1  Written request for transfer to any of the District vacancies shall be filed by 

the unit member with the District Personnel Office, with a copy to the 
immediate supervisor, on a Transfer Request Form as supplied by the 
District.  The transfer request must specify the position which is requested, 
shall be applicable only to the one (1) position, and must be submitted to 
the District Personnel Office prior to the deadline for filing vacancy 
applications.  The District Personnel Office shall receive such applications 
for transfer, date all applications as received, and return a dated copy of 
each application to the applicant. 

9.4.2  Any unit member who desires to be informed of vacancies which might 

occur during the summer months or during a leave of absence must 
indicate such requests to the District Personnel Office.  The District 
Personnel Office shall forward to the unit member any vacancy notices 
and the unit member may make application for transfer to specific 
vacancies prior to August 15.  Information regarding vacancies will be 
available by phone through the District Personnel Office. 

9.4.3  The immediate supervisor of the operating unit where the vacancy exists 

shall interview all applicants who meet the qualifications and criteria 
identified in the vacancy notice. 

9.4.4  Selection for a vacant position shall be based upon the following 

qualifications, which shall be stated in the vacancy notice: 

9.4.4.1 

 

Required credential authorization(s) (elementary and 
secondary positions); 

9.4.4.2 

 
9.4.4.3 

 
9.4.4.4 

 
9.4.4.5  
 
9.4.4.6 

Major(s) or minor(s) (specialized elementary positions and 
all secondary positions); 

Expertise at a particular grade level (elementary only); 
subject area experience (secondary positions); 

Skills and individual capabilities as specified in the job 
description (elementary and secondary positions); 

Applicable adjunct capabilities (elementary and secondary); 

If all of the above factors are substantially equal, then the 
unit member with the most District-wide seniority shall be 
selected. 

9.4.5  All applicants for the vacancy shall be notified of the results of the 

selection procedure within five (5) working days.  The unit member, upon 
request, shall be notified of the criteria used in the selection.  A unit 
member who is not selected for the position shall be granted, upon 
request, a personal meeting with the Superintendent or his/her designee to 
discuss the issues. 

9.4.5.1 

The District shall make the log of the selection process 
available to the Union President and his/her designee, upon 
request. 

9.4.6  Unit members who meet all the criteria in 9.4.4 for a vacancy shall have 

priority placement to a vacancy prior to consideration of outside 
candidates.   

Intra-District Position Exchange 

9.5.1  Two (2) unit members may request to exchange positions in the District. 
 
9.5.2   A proposal for the exchange, composed by the two (2) unit members, shall 

be presented to the Assistant Superintendent, thirty (30) days prior to the 
end of the semester which precedes the semester of the proposed 
exchange. 

 
9.5.3  With the approval of the two site administrators involved, the exchange 

may be implemented for a one-year (1) term.  The unit members involved 
may request an extension for a second year or may return to their original 
positions. 

Involuntary Transfers  

 

 

 

 
9.5 
 

 
9.6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9.6.1  Prior to the imposition of an involuntary transfer, volunteers shall be 

sought by the immediate supervisor. 

 
9.6.2  At schools which are identified by the District Office for reduction in staff 

as a result of decline in enrollment, program reduction, or program 
elimination, site supervisors and appropriate staff shall establish criteria for 
the determination of which personnel shall be transferred.  All unit 
members at that site shall be notified regarding the criteria to be used by 
the immediate supervisor for the determination of which personnel shall be 
transferred. 

9.6.3    If sufficient voluntary transfers are not forthcoming, the immediate 

supervisor shall select the unit member to be transferred based upon the 
following criteria: 

9.6.3.1 

9.6.3.2 

9.6.3.3 

9.6.3.4 

Required credential authorization(s) elementary and 
secondary positions); 

Major(s) or minor(s) (specialized elementary positions and 
all secondary positions); 

Expertise at a particular grade level (elementary only); 
subject area experience (secondary positions); 

Skills and individual capabilities as specified in the job 
description (elementary and secondary positions); 

9.6.3.5  

Applicable adjunct capabilities (elementary and secondary). 

9.6.3.6 

If the above factors are substantially equal, then the unit 
member with the least District-wide seniority shall be 
selected. 

9.6.3.6.1 

The unit member shall be notified in writing 
by the immediate supervisor of the effective 
date of the transfer. 

9.6.4  Unit members who are to be transferred under such conditions shall be 

given the opportunity to apply for any vacant positions in the District and 
the selection of such personnel shall be made as required in 9.4. 

9.6.4.1 

Unit members who meet all the criteria in 9.4.4 for a 
vacancy shall have priority placement to a vacancy prior to 
consideration of outside candidates. 

 

 
9.7 
 

 

 
9.8 
 

 

9.6.5  Unit members shall be granted, upon request, a personal meeting with the 

Superintendent or his/her designee if they object to the involuntary 
transfer and/or subsequent assignment.  The Superintendent or his/her 
designee shall make the decision regarding the transfer and his/her decision 
shall be submitted in writing to the unit member and the immediate 
supervisor involved. 

Involuntary Transfers for Improvement of Performance 

9.7.1       The District may involuntarily transfer up to three unit members within 

three years if  the District concludes a change in work location may 
improve performance.  Such transfers must be supported by evaluations of 
the employee’s performance.  The reasons for such transfer must be 
provided in writing along with an explanation of how the District considers 
that transfer may improve performance. 

9.7.1.1  The unit member shall be granted, upon request, a personal 

meeting with the Superintendent or his/her designee if he/she 
objects to the involuntary transfer and/or subsequent assignment.  
The Superintendent or his/her designee shall make a final 
decision relative to all options presented throughout this process 
and his/her decision shall be submitted in writing to the unit 
member and the immediate supervisor. 

Non-Discrimination 

9.8.1       The District shall not discriminate in case of voluntary or involuntary 

transfer of a unit member because of membership or non-membership in 
an employee organization, ethnic background, religious, political 
affiliation, or private.  Nor shall a unit member be discriminated against 
because of age, sex, or physical appearance. 

ARTICLE 10.  Traveling Teacher Assignments 

 
10.1  Traveling teachers are those unit members who are assigned to perform 

instructional duties at more than one school site. 

 
10.2  Prior to completing staffing plans for traveling instructional positions, the 

Assistant Superintendent(s) or designee shall distribute the proposed staffing plan 
to the traveling teachers in those units. 

 
10.3  Traveling teachers may indicate their preferences for assignment to positions on 

the proposed staffing plans. 

 
10.4  The Assistant Superintendent(s) or designee shall develop proposed staffing plans 
taking into consideration the preferences of unit members, and distribute a copy of 
the proposed plan to each traveling teacher. 

 
10.5  The Assistant Superintendent(s) or designee shall meet with all unit members 

within those units to review the proposed assignments. 

 
10.6  Prior to the close of the school year, the unit manager shall distribute to each 

current traveling unit member the expected assignment for the following school 
year. 

  
 

 

10.7 

 
10.8 

If the unit member disagrees with the expected assignment for the following year, 
the unit member shall request a meeting with the unit administrator to discuss the 
assignment.  If satisfactory resolution is not effected, the unit member shall be 
granted, upon request, a personal meeting with the Superintendent or his/her 
designee.  The Superintendent or his/her designee shall make the final decision 
and his/her decision shall be submitted in writing to the unit member and the 
immediate supervisor involved. 

If during the summer months there is any change required in  the expected 
assignment of traveling unit members, notice shall be made to the unit member as 
quickly as possible.  The unit manager and the unit member shall develop an 
alternate assignment schedule from existing vacancies. 

ARTICLE 11. Leaves 

 
11.1  Notification Procedures 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.1.1  Unit members who find it necessary to be absent from duty shall notify the 

District Human Resources Office as far in advance of the anticipated 
absence as possible. 

11.1.2  Emergency Absence Procedures 

11.1.2.1 

In the case of an emergency absence, such as absence for 
illness or injury or bereavement leave, the unit member 
shall notify the District Human Resources Office by calling 
the District’s automated substitute calling system prior to 
6:30 a.m. on the day of the emergency absence.  All 
absences entered into the SubFinder System should be 
entered for the total expected time of absence. 

11.1.2.2 

In case of absence on the last day of the school week, the 
unit member shall return at the start of the following week 
unless notification has been given to the District Substitute-
Dispatch Office that such return is not expected. 

11.1.3  Extended Leave Procedures 

11.1.3.1 

11.1.3.2 

11.1.3.3 

In the case of a request for an extended leave, such as leave 
for pregnancy, disability, military leave, or extended leave 
without pay, the unit member shall submit the appropriate 
form to the District Human Resources Office through the 
site/unit administrator and obtain approval in advance of 
the leave. 

Unit members who desire to apply for a leave of absence 
for a year or a semester’s duration shall apply to the District 
Office through the site/unit administrator twenty (20) 
working days prior to the commencement of the leave. 

Unit members who desire a leave of absence for more than 
ten (10) days but less than one (1) semester shall apply to 
the District Office through the site/unit administrator fifteen 
(15) working days prior to the commencement of the leave. 

11.1.3.4 

Request for any extension of an extended leave of absence 
must be submitted to the District Office on or before 
February 1 prior to the close of the school year for which 
the leave has been approved.  Failure to notify the District 
Office within the designated time limits regarding whether 
or not the unit member desires to return may result in 
termination of employment upon expiration of the leave.  
The District will notify employees on leave of this 
requirement no later than January 1. 

 
11.2  Verification Procedure 
 

 
11.3 
 

 

 

11.2.1  The District may require verification of reasons for the taking or use of any 

leave if the District has reason to believe that the absence may not have 
been used for proper leave purposes.  Such verification in the case of 
accident or illness leave may include a statement by a qualified doctor (or 
practitioner in the case of religious requirement) verifying the cause and 
condition of said accident or illness.  Abuse of leave privileges may be 
subject to loss of pay and appropriate disciplinary action. 

Illness or Injury Leave 

11.3.1  Every unit member who is regularly employed five (5) days per week is 

entitled to one (1) day of paid sick leave for each full month of 
employment.  Unit members who work less than full time shall be entitled 
to one (1) day of leave pro-rated as the number of hours they are 
employed per week of scheduled duty relates to a full-time employee.  
Sick leave may be accumulated and carried over to the following school 
year without limitation. 

11.3.2  The District may require verification by a physician of the District’s choice 

of any unit member’s ability to perform his/her responsibilities before 
returning to work due to an absence for illness or injury.  The examination 
shall be at no cost to the unit member.  The verification shall be on the 
appropriate District form. 

11.3.3  In case of emergency illness (or emergency medical or dental appointment, 
which cannot be accommodated during off-duty hours, for a maximum of 
two (2) hours per month, including travel time) the unit member’s class 
may be covered voluntarily by other unit members on their conference 
periods, and such absence shall not be charged against the unit member’s 
sick leave.  The site administrator shall be notified in advance of such 
coverage.  Unit members with other medical/dental appointments which 
cannot be accommodated during off-duty hours shall be charged for a 

substitute (half-day or all day increments) for that portion of the day 
missed, and a substitute will be employed. 

11.3.3.1 

Unit members providing voluntary coverage per 11.3.3 do 
so as a professional courtesy and will receive no monetary 
compensation. 

11.3.4  Unit members in the bargaining unit whose illness/injury benefits have 

been consumed and who must still be absent from duty because of illness 
or injury shall provide the District with a statement from a qualified 
physician (or practitioner, in the case of religious requirement) which 
indicates the need for such a leave.  In such cases, the unit member shall 
receive that amount of pay which is the difference between his/her pay and 
the amount paid for a substitute employee, whether or not a substitute is 
employed, for a total period of five months per school year, inclusive of 
accumulated illness or injury leave.  The District shall make every 
reasonable effort to secure the services of a substitute employee. 

 
 
11.4  Leave for Pregnancy Disability 
 

 

 

 

 

 

11.4.1  Unit members are entitled to use accumulated sick leave as set forth in 

provisions of illness/injury leave for disabilities caused, or contributed to, 
by pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery therefrom.  Such leave 
shall not be used for child care, childrearing, or preparation for 
childbearing, but shall be limited to those disabilities as set forth above.  
The length of such disability leave, including the date upon which the 
duties are to be resumed, shall be determined by the unit member and the 
unit member’s physician. 

11.4.2  Unit members are entitled to leave without pay or other benefits for 

disabilities caused by pregnancy, miscarriage, or childbirth.  The date upon 
which the unit member shall resume duties shall be determined by the unit 
member on leave and her physician. 

11.5.1  Unit members who are members of any reserve corps of the Armed Forces 

of the United States, the National Guard, or the Naval Militia, or who are 
inducted into or who are otherwise ordered to active duty shall be granted 
such leave as required by the Education and Military and Veterans Codes. 

11.5.2  A copy of military orders shall be provided to the District Office with the 

request for military leave. 

 
11.5  Military Leave 
 

11.6  Personal Necessity Leave 
 

11.6.1  Unit members shall be allowed to use up to seven (7) days of accumulated 
sick leave, which may not be carried over from year to year, without prior 
approval but with prior notification only, for the following purposes: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.6.1.1 

11.6.1.2 

11.6.1.3 

11.6.1.4 

11.6.1.5 

11.6.1.6 

11.6.1.7 

11.6.1.8 

An emergency accident involving the unit member’s person 
or property or the person or property of a member of 
his/her immediate family.  An emergency accident would 
involve an unforeseen mishap or the serious injury of an 
immediate family member or property damage resulting 
from an unforeseen mishap or the serious injury of an 
immediate family member or property damage resulting 
from an unforeseen tragedy or act of destruction. 

An illness of a member of the unit member’s immediate 
family which is of a serious nature.  An illness of a serious 
nature shall be an illness which a unit member cannot 
reasonably be expected to disregard and which requires the 
attention of the unit member during his/her assigned hours 
of service. 

Any unexpected event involving damage or injury to 
personal property which has crucial significance for the unit 
member or his/her immediate family.  The aftermath of fire, 
flood, falling objects, and burglary are examples. 

Required appearance in court when the unit member is a 
litigant.  The District may require such court documentation 
regarding the required appearance as it deems necessary. 

Death of a member of the immediate family after utilization 
of bereavement leave provided in 11.7, below. 

The birth or adoption of a child, making it necessary for the 
unit member who is the parent of the child to be absent 
from his/her duties. 

Wedding of unit member or unit member’s immediate 
family as defined in 11.6.2. 

College or university graduation of family members 
identified in 11.6.2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.6.1.9  

11.6.1.10 

Unit members may request the use of accumulated sick 
leave under 11.6.1 for other matters of compelling personal 
importance which cannot reasonably be expected to be 
taken care of outside the regular work day.  

Other than in cases of emergency, requests under this 
section must be submitted in writing, including a brief 
description of the compelling personal importance, to the 
Superintendent or designee in advance of the leave.  Unit 
members using Personal Necessity Leave under this 
provision, when approved, must verify on the District 
Request for Personal Necessity form that the leave was for 
Personal Necessity and not used for recreational purposes, 
extension of a holiday, vacation or for matters of purely 
personal convenience.  

11.6.2  For the purposes of this article, “immediate family” shall be defined as the 

mother, father, grandmother, grandfather, or grandchild of the unit 
member or the spouse of the unit member, or the spouse, son, son-in-law, 
daughter, daughter-in-law, brother, or sister, aunt, uncle, brother-in-law, 
sister-in-law, or close personal friend of the unit member, or any person 
living permanently in the immediate household of the unit member, or any 
person for whom the unit member is a legal guardian. 

11.6.3  Unit members may use one (1) of the specified personal necessity days 

enumerated in 11.6.1 for reasons of a compelling nature which (a) cannot 
be dealt with during non-duty hours; (b) necessitate the immediate 
attention of the employee; and (c) are not for the personal convenience of 
the employee, but instead are required necessities over which the 
employee has no control. 

11.6.3.1 

11.6.3.2 

Unit members who use such unspecified personal necessity 
leave shall provide advance notification to the District in 
accordance with 11.1.2, but prior approval by the District is 
not required. 

Personal necessity leave shall not be used for social or 
recreational purposes, political activities or demonstrations, 
withholding of school district services, or the pursuit of 
business interests or other employment. 

11.6.4  In addition to the seven (7) days enumerated above, the Assistant 

Superintendent may grant a unit member a request for a leave at the cost 
of a substitute, regardless of whether or not a substitute is hired.  Leaves 
granted under this provision must meet the criteria of Section 11.6.3, 

above.  This leave may be granted for reasons other than those enumerated 
in 11.6.3. 

11.6.5  Unit members will be granted use of sick leave up to three days, when the 
unit member provides certification from a physician, or practitioner, that 
such time is needed due to stress. 

 

11.7  Bereavement Leave 
 

 

 

 
11.8 
 

 

11.7.1  Absence without loss of salary or sick leave shall be allowed to any regular 
unit member, for a period not to exceed three (3) days, upon the death of a 
member of the immediate family, or for five (5) days if over two hundred 
(200) miles of travel is required. 

 
11.7.2  For purpose of this article, “immediate family” shall be defined as the 

mother, father, grandmother, grandfather, or grandchild of the unit 
member or the spouse of the unit member, or the spouse, son, son-in-law, 
daughter, daughter-in-law, brother, or sister, aunt, uncle, brother-in-law, 
sister-in-law, or close personal friend of the unit member, or any person 
living permanently in the immediate household of the unit member, or any 
person for whom the unit member is a legal guardian. 

Jury Duty Leave 

11.8.1  Leaves of absence, during the school year, for jury duty shall be provided 

at a salary which is equal to the difference of the employee’s regular 
earnings and any amount he/she receives as juror’s fees, exclusive of 
mileage, during the period he/she serves as a juror. 

11.8.2  Beginning with the 1994-95 school year, those bargaining unit members 

who choose to postpone jury duty from the regular school year to the 
summer break, shall receive the established daily substitute rate for each 
day of jury service. 

 
11.9  Court Appearance Leave 
 

11.9.1  The District shall grant leaves of absence to a unit member to appear as a 

witness in court, other than as a litigant, in response to an official order 
from another governmental jurisdiction for reasons not brought about 
through the connivance or misconduct of the unit member.  Leaves of 
absence for this purpose shall be provided at a salary which is equal to the 
difference of the employee’s regular earnings and any amount he/she 
receives as witness fees, exclusive of mileage, during the period he/she 
serves as a witness. 

11.10  Industrial Accident or Illness Leave 
 

11.10.1  Unit members will be entitled to industrial accident or illness leave in 
accordance with the requirements of the Education Code for personal 
injury that qualifies the unit member for Workers’ Compensation 
benefits. 

11.10.2  Such leave for any industrial accident or illness shall not exceed seventy-
five (75) days during which schools of the District are required to be in 
session or when the unit member would otherwise be performing work 
for the District.  When any such leave overlaps the next succeeding year, 
the unit member shall only be entitled to the unused portion remaining at 
the close of the previous year. 

11.10.3  If the industrial accident or illness leave should extend beyond seventy-

five (75) working days, the unit member may use any other paid leave to 
which he/she is entitled.  After expiration of paid leave, if a unit member 
is unable to return to work, as determined by a licensed physician, he/she 
may be granted additional leave without pay for the remainder of the 
current school year. 

11.10.4  The District has the right to have the unit member examined by a 

physician designated by the District to assist in determining the length of 
time during which the unit member will temporarily be unable to 
perform assigned duties and the degree to which the disability is 
attributable to the injury involved. 

11.10.5  For any days of absence from duty as a result of an accident or illness 

that qualifies the unit member for Workers’ Compensation benefits, the 
unit member shall receive total compensation, consisting of salary and 
Workers’ Compensation benefits, not to exceed 100% of the 
compensation the unit member would have received had the accident or 
illness not occurred. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11.11  Leaves of Absence Without Pay 
 

11.11.1  Upon a unit member’s request, a unit member shall be granted a leave of 

absence without pay for the following reasons: 

11.11.1.1   Ill health.  The unit member shall submit a physician’s 

certification, as may be required by the District, regarding the 
ill health and its expected duration. 

 

11.11.1.2  Illness of a member of the immediate family upon 
certification by the attending physician that the unit 
member’s presence is necessary. 

 
11.11.1.3  Election or appointment of unit member to a full-time public 

office which precludes services as a certificated employee.  
The leave shall be for the duration of the elected or appointed 
officer’s term. 

11.11.2  Unit members may request, and the Board of Education may grant, 

leaves of absence without pay for other reasons.  Examples of such leave 
include child care, professional training/education, travel.  

 
11.11.3  Unit members requesting leaves of absence without pay shall submit 
their request in writing in accordance with the time requirements of 
11.1.3  All leaves of absence without pay, whether authorized under the 
provisions of 11.11.1 or 11.11.2, shall terminate at the conclusion of the 
semester, at the end of the school year for which it was granted, or at 
such other time as is mutually agreed by the Board of Education and the 
employee. 

11.11.4  Time spent on a leave of absence without pay shall not count toward 

salary step advancement (or employee benefit accrual) and shall not be 
considered part of the probationary period. 

11.11.5  A leave of absence granted to a probationary employee shall not affect 

the continuity of service required for permanency. 

11.11.6  During a period of an unpaid leave, and for a maximum of three years, 

unit members may continue to participate in the health and welfare 
benefits program offered by the District at no cost to the District.  
Payment to the District for such benefits shall be made in accord with 
such payment schedule as the District may require. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11.12  Rights Upon Return 
 

11.12.1  In the case of a leave of absence by a unit member for a period less than 
a full year, which commences after the beginning of the school year and 
ends prior to the close of the same school year, the unit member shall 
have the right of return to the same school site unless the unit member 
has been replaced by the transfer of another permanent unit member or 
that unit member’s class or assignment has been eliminated. 

11.12.2  In the case of a leave of absence by a unit member which commences 
within one (1) school year and terminates in a subsequent school year, 
the unit member shall have the right of return to a position in the District. 

 

11.13  Sabbatical Leaves (Funding currently suspended) 
 

11.13.1  When the Union/District Negotiating Team has determined that funding 

is available, the District may grant to qualified applicants sabbatical 
leaves not to exceed one (1) percent of the unit members.  The amount 
allocated annually shall be equal to nine (9) times one-half (1/2) of the 
average teacher’s salary as calculated from that year’s salary schedule. 

 
11.13.2  Sabbatical Leave Purpose 

11.13.2.1 

Sabbatical leaves shall be used to obtain additional 
credential authorizations in the fields of special education, 
bilingual/bicultural education, high school mathematics and 
science, and other fields identified jointly by the District 
and the Union. 

11.13.3  Length of Service 

11.13.3.1  Unit members who have completed seven (7) years of 

consecutive, full-time service in the District may be 
considered eligible for sabbatical leaves. 

11.13.4  Application Procedure 
 

11.13.4.1  Unit members may submit an application for sabbatical 

leave for the reasons stated above for a period not to exceed 
one (1) school year. 

11.13.5  Selection Procedure 

11.13.5.1  A Sabbatical Leave Committee shall be created and shall be 

comprised as follows: 

11.13.5.1.1  Two (2) representatives designated by the 

Superintendent, 

11.13.5.1.2  Two (2) representatives designated by the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Union, 
 

11.13.5.1.3  One (1) representative mutually agreed to by 

the Union and the District. 

11.13.6  Selection Criteria 

11.13.6.1 

The sabbatical leave committee shall establish criteria for 
the approval or disapproval of applications for sabbatical 
leave consistent with this article.  In the event that more 
than one (1) percent of the unit members apply for and are 
found to be qualified for a sabbatical leave, preference shall 
be given to those who have not previously been granted a 
sabbatical leave.  If two (2) applicants are considered 
substantially equal by the sabbatical leave committee, then 
seniority shall be the deciding factor regarding which unit 
member will receive a sabbatical leave. 

 
 
 
 
11.13.7  Compensation 

11.13.7.1 

Sabbatical leaves shall be compensated at an amount equal 
to fifty (50) percent of the salary of a full-time employee, 
and receive full health and welfare benefits provided by the 
District. 

11.13.8  Commitment 

11.13.8.1 

Unit members granted sabbatical leaves shall agree in 
writing to render a period of service to the District following 
return from leave which is equal to twice the period of the 
leave.  Failure to render such service shall entitle the District 
to recovery of any compensation paid to the unit member 
while on the leave.  Any costs incurred by the District to 
recover said compensation shall be borne by the unit 
member.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11.14  Administrative Leave 
 

Notice of administrative leave will be provided in writing to the unit member 
placed upon such leave at the time the leave is to commence.  This notice shall be 
over the signature of the Superintendent or his/her designee, and shall include the 
reason(s) for the leave. 

11.15  Catastrophic Leave Program 
 

11.15.1 

 

11.15.2 

 

When a catastrophic illness or injury incapacitates an employee or 
a member of his/her family for an extended period of time, fellow 
employees may donate accrued vacation and sick leave credits to 
that employee under the specific requirements of the district’s 
catastrophic leave program. Donations made under the catastrophic 
leave program shall be strictly voluntary and donors shall sign a 
form acknowledging that the transfer of leave credit is irrevocable.  

The Board reserves the right to discontinue the Catastrophic Leave 
Program at its discretion at any time; however, any employee or 
employees utilizing donated leave credits at the time the Board 
determines the program is to be discontinued, shall be allowed to 
continue to utilize donated leave credits until such time as the 
maximum benefit has been received or all donated eligible leave 
credits have been exhausted. 

ARTICLE 12.  Salaries 

 
12.1         Believing that the key to quality education for the students of the Newport-Mesa 

Unified School District begins with a well qualified teacher, the District and the 
Federation agree to the goal of attaining and maintaining teacher salaries between 
the mean and 75th percentile when compared to salaries of teachers in other unified 
school districts in Orange County. The goal of N-MFT and the District is to 
eventually maintain teacher total compensation at or near the 75th percentile based 
on an annual comparison to the average of the agreed upon benchmark positions 
and salary/benefit data for each Orange County unified school district. 

  

12.1.1   The District and N-MFT agree that the five benchmark positions that will 

be used for comparison will include the regular salary teachers in all 
Orange County unified districts would earn who are fully credentialed and 
who:  (a) have a Bachelor’s degree (BA) plus thirty (30) units past the BA 
and no years of service credit, (b) have a Bachelor’s degree (BA) plus 
forty-five (45) units past the BA and five (5)years of service credit, (c) have 
a Bachelor’s degree (BA) plus sixty (60) units past the BA or a Master’s 
degree and ten (10) years of service credit, (d) have a Master’s degree plus 
seventy-five (75) units and fifteen (15) years of service credit, and finally 
(e) the maximum salary including all longevity increments/bonuses.  In 
order to fairly compare these benchmarks between districts, the daily rates 
for each benchmark position will be calculated and then averaged to create 
one number per district that will be used to calculate rank and percentile 
point variance from the mean and from the 75th percentile. 

 

 

12.2         For the 1999-2000 school year, the parties agree to the following adjustments to 

the compensation package provided to teachers: 
 
12.2.1   The salary schedule will be adjusted retroactively from July 1, 1999 to 
reflect implementation of the State of California’s Beginning Teacher 
Incentive Funding.  This will bring the beginning salary for fully 
credentialed teachers to $33,100 (cell A1).  Cell A2 will be adjusted to 
$33,101, cell A3 will be adjusted to $33,102, cell B1 will be adjusted to 
$33,101. 

12.3  For the 2000-2001 school year, the parties agree to the following adjustments to 

the compensation package provided to teachers: 
 

12.3.1     Provide an across the board salary increase to Columns A through D 
of 9% to the 1999-2000 Certificated Salary Schedules that existed prior 
to  implementation  of  the  1999-2000  Beginning  Teacher  Incentive 
Funding.  In addition, cell A1 will then be increased to $34,000 and cell 
A2 to $34,700 in order to capture the increased funding for the 2000-

2001 Beginning Teacher Incentive Funding.  (See Appendix A for the 
revised salary schedule) 

 
12.3.2     Adjust  Column  One  to  have  a  starting  salary  of  $30,000  and  four 
additional  steps  calculated  at  a  3%  increase  per year. Unit members 
hired  on  Pre-Intern,  Intern,  Emergency,  or  other  permits,  waivers  or 
credentials that are not equivalent to a preliminary or professional clear 
credential shall be placed on Column One with the appropriate years of 
service credit defined in 11.4  (See Appendix A for the revised salary 
schedule) 

12.3.3     The  equivalent  funding  of  a  9%  increase  in  funding  for  Role  and 
Recompense  for  2000-2001  will  be  set  aside  for  negotiated 
adjustments/changes to the Role and Recompense during that year. 

12.3.4     Both parties acknowledge that previously negotiated increases to the 
District  contribution  for  Health  and  Welfare  benefits  from  $5,232  to 
$5,800 
in  ongoing 
compensation to employees in this area for 2000-2001. 

represent  approximately  a  1.1% 

increase 

12.3.5     Commit 48.5% of any previously uncommitted, unrestricted General 
Fund new revenue received in 2000-2001 to certificated bargaining unit 
members for increases to the total compensation package.  Analysis of 
the  availability  of  new  revenue  will  be  completed  at  the  P1  and  P2 
reporting  period  of  budget  review.    “Uncommitted”  shall  mean 
unbudgeted in the Final 2000-2001 All Funds Budget approved by the 
Board  of  Education  in  September  2000.    The  calculation  of  “new 
revenue”  will  not  be  affected by or include increases or decreases in 
Revenue Limit income resulting from increased or decreased Average 
Daily  Attendance  (ADA)  as  compared  to  the  ADA  assumed  in  the 
Final 2000-01 All Funds Budget approved by the Board of Education 
in September, 2000.  The District and NMFT agree that any one-time 
new  revenues  will  only  be  considered  for  one-time increases to total 
compensation  unless  by  mutual  agreement  the  parties  choose  to 
renegotiate expenditure of these revenues.  

Examples of new revenue are: 

1.      Increases in Revenue Limit income resulting from any additional net 
increase in the inflation adjustment under applicable state law to the 
District’s  revenue  limit  for  the  2000-2001 fiscal year over and above 
the adjustment in effect as of the date of ratification.  

2.     New revenue generated during the 2000-2001 fiscal year as a result of 

the District qualifying for Basic Aid under applicable state law.  

 

 

 

 

3.      Increases  in  ongoing,  restricted  or  categorical  revenue  which,  under 
applicable law, the District may decide to reallocate ongoing expenses 
for existing programs to decommit  encumbered, unrestricted General 
Fund revenue during the 2000-2001 fiscal year. 

4.      Increased  revenue  resulting  from  any  net  proceeds  of  settlement  or 
judgment  received  during  the  2000-2001  fiscal  year  by  the  District 
from the pending litigation against the State of California (Commission 
on State Mandates, Case No.CSM-3986) to recover monies from the 
State  mandated  cost  fund  for  costs  of  special  education,  if  those 
proceeds  are  unrestricted  by  the  terms  of  the  settlement  and/or 
applicable law. 

 

12.3.6     Should  new  revenues  described  above  cause  the  salary  schedule 
increases to place salaries to a level one percent (1%) or more above 
the 75th percentile of the average of the benchmark positions, the salary 
schedule  increase  for  that  year  shall  be  frozen  at  that  level  and  
certificated  bargaining  unit  members’  appropriate  share  of  additional 
new revenues will then be negotiated to improve working conditions 
for bargaining unit members. 

 
12.4  The Union and the District negotiations teams will return to the table to negotiate 
the use of additional revenue after the first interim report (December 15), and after 
the second interim report (March15). 

 
12.6  Step Advancement 
 

 
12.5 

 

Initial Placement 
 
12.5.1  Initial placement on the salary schedule shall be based on the unit 

member’s individual record of experience and training filed with the 
District office and as recommended by the Superintendent and approved 
by the Board.  Supporting transcripts for initial column placement must be 
submitted by the unit member within forty-five (45) days of the date of 
his/her employment. 

Upon initial employment for all unit members hired after July 1, 2000, 
credit for service outside the District shall be allowed on the salary 
schedule at the rate of one (1) year for each year of service equivalent to 
75% or more of a contract year of school employment in an accredited 
institution while serving under a preliminary or professional clear 
credential up to a maximum of seven (7) years credit effective for the 
2000-2001 school year  

12.6.1  One (1) year of credit on the salary schedule shall be given for each one (1) 
year of certificated employment in the District, but not to exceed the step 
maximum of each column. 
 
12.6.2  A unit member shall receive a year credit if the amount earned is equal to 
fifty (50) percent or more of the amount earnable for a full-time position at 
the same step and column  provided the unit member was in active 
employment or on paid leave. 

 
12.7  Column Advancement 
 

12.7.1  Unit members shall be advanced on the salary schedule on the basis of 

approved educational and professional growth units, verified by transcript 
forms/or District approved verification forms, which the unit member 
completes beyond the requirements of the Bachelor’s Degree 
 

12.7.2  All  Professional  Growth  Units  must  be  approved  by  the  Professional 
Growth  Committee.    All  Units  must  be  approved  by  the  Committee  in 
advance of the unit member earning the Units except for Units, which are  
in-service courses sponsored by the District. 
 

12.7.3    The Professional Growth Committee shall be established and function as 

follows: 

12.7.3.1    

 
12.7.3.2 

 
12.7.3.3 

The Committee shall be made up of three (3) unit  
members  appointed  by  the  Union  and  one  (1) 
management 
the 
Superintendent or his/her designee.  Composition of 
the  Committee  may  be  changed  with  mutual 
agreement of the District and the Union.  

team  member  appointed  by 

A  unit  member  whose  proposed  Units  are  denied 
approval  by  the  Committee shall have the right of 
appeal  to  the  Committee.    If  the  appeal  is  denied, 
the unit member may appeal to the Superintendent 
or  his/her  designee.    The  ultimate  decision  on  the 
appeal  will  rest  with  the  Superintendent  or  his/her 
designee. 

Sponsors  of  proposed  workshops/in-services  who 
are denied approval have the right of one (1) appeal 
to the Committee. 

 

 

 

 

 

12.7.4  In  reviewing  requests  for  approval,  the  Committee  shall  apply  the 
to  be  used  for  salary  column 

following  requirements  for  Units 
advancement: 
 

12.7.4.1   

 The  Units  must  meet  one  of 
requirements: 

the  following 

12.7.4.1.1  

12.7.4.1.2 

12.7.4.1.3 

specific 

The  Units  must  be  upper  division  or 
graduate-level  courses  at  an  accredited 
institution  of  higher 
education 
after 
completion of the Bachelor’s Degree. 
 
The  Units  must  be  lower  division  courses 
which  have 
advance  written 
approval of the Committee. 
 
The  Units  must  be 
in-service  courses 
sponsored by the District or by a college or 
professional  organization  which  are  similar 
in  nature,  composition, and time to college 
or  university-level  courses. 
  Specific 
approval for each in-service course must be 
acquired from the Committee.  One (1) unit 
of  column  advancement  credit  may  be 
earned for each fifteen (15) hours of meeting 
time. 

12.7.4.2    

In  addition,  the  Units  must  meet  one  of  the 
following requirements: 

12.7.4.2.1 

12.7.4.2.2 

The Units must have a direct relationship to 
the  instruction  (or  anticipated  instructional 
assignment) provided by the unit member. 
 
The  Units  must  be  upper  division  or 
graduate-level courses taken at an accredited 
institution  of  higher  education  which  are 
required  by  the  institution  to  complete 
requirements  for  a  graduate  degree,  new 
credential,  or  new  credential  authorization 
which  has  a  direct  relationship  to  the 
instruction 
instructional 
assignment) provided by the unit member. 
 

(or  anticipated 

12.7.4.2.3 

The Units must fall within the scope of any 
other areas of professional growth covered 
in the Professional Growth Manual 
established by the State of California for 
teachers receiving credentials after 1985.  
These units will be considered on a case-by-
case basis by the Committee for each unit 
member requesting approval for salary 
credit.  

 

12.7.5  Certificated unit member advancement on the salary schedule occurs only 

at the beginning of a given school year.  All interpretations of the 
placement on the salary schedule shall be based on verifiable information 
and documentation (such as grade card or letter from the instructor), which 
must be filed with the District Office not later than October 1 of any school 
year with suitable documentation and evidence that transcripts/verification 
forms are being processed.  Column placement salary adjustments shall 
not be made by the District if the official transcript/verification form does 
not verify successful course completion. 

 
12.8  Leaves/Interruption of Service 
 

12.8.1  For purposes of this article, approved leaves of absence shall not be 

considered as an interruption in consecutive years of service; however, the 
period of any unpaid leave shall not be credited as a period of service. 

 
12.9  Stipends 

 
12.9.1  Those unit members who possess a B-CLAD (formerly Bilingual 
Credential or Certificate of Competence) while teaching students identified as 
English Language Learners shall receive the stipend enumerated in Appendix A at 
the rate of $500 per year effective July 1, 1994. 
 
12.9.2   Those unit members who possess a CLAD (formerly Language 

Development Specialist [LDS]) Certificate while teaching students 
identified as English Language Learners  shall receive a stipend 
enumerated in Appendix A at the rate of $300 per year effective July 1, 
1994. 

 

12.9.3   By October 31st of each school year, the Human Resources Office shall 

prepare a staff list indicating which staff members have B-CLAD, CLAD, 
or equivalent certificates for each site.  The principal shall review this list 
and return it to Human Resources by December 1st indicating which staff 
members should receive the appropriate stipend based on the teaching 

assignment for that year that includes instruction to English Language 
Learners. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
12.10  Adult Education and Hourly Employees 
 

12.10.1 Effective July 1, 2000, those unit members who serve in Adult Education, 

in categorically funded programs, or on an hourly basis, shall be paid in 
accordance with the hourly rate stated in the schedule below and 
summarized in Appendix A: 

Year 
1 
2 
3 

 
 
  
   
   
 
12.10.2  Effective July 1, 2000, the Adult Education Substitute Rate will be 

        Without Masters    With Masters Degree 
$27.00/hr 
 
 
$28.00/hr 
$29.00/hr 
 

adjusted to $22.00 per hour and reflected on Appendix A.    

$26.00/hr 
$27.00/hr 
$28.00/hr 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
12.10.3  Appendix A will also be amended to reflect the hourly instructional rate 

for non-management certificated employees of $29.00 per hour in 
addition to the current rate of $26.00 per hour for supervision and staff 
development related hourly responsibilities. 

 

 
12.11  Role and Recompense 
 

12.11.1  Unit members who qualify for Role and Recompense shall receive 

payment in accordance with the amounts specified in Appendix B, B1, 
B2, B3, and B4 effective July 1, 1990. 

 
12.11.2  The District shall pay Role and Recompense on the payroll following 

the timely receipt of Miscellaneous Earnings Reports from unit 
members. 

  

12.10.2.1        The total amount due shall be paid at the conclusion of the 

specified                                                           activities, 
provided Miscellaneous Earnings Reports are received on a   
timely basis, less any payments made under the provisions 
of 12.10.2   above. 

  

12.12  Summer School 
 

12.12.1  Unit members employed for an entire Summer Session shall receive a 

contract for  $3,530. Exceptions to the contract rate shall be prorated on 
the summer school per diem rate.  These exceptions will be determined 
by selection of the unit member for the specific jobs posted as less than 
the regular summer session. 

 
12.12.2  A Summer Session is defined as the minimum number of teaching 

hours required to meet the regulations set forth in the Education Code. 

 
 
12.13  Emergency Substitute Service by Unit Members 
 

 
12.14   Request for Credit Information 
 

12.13.1 

 

 
12.13.2 

 

In instances of emergency, unit members at the secondary level may be 
assigned to provide substitute service during their 
preparation/conference period.  Unit administrators will first request 
volunteers when the occasion arises.  In the event that there are no 
volunteers, or insufficient volunteers to cover necessary periods, the 
unit administrator will assign unit members on a rotation schedule. 

12.13.1.1  Unit members at the secondary level shall be paid an 

amount equal to the hourly rate stated in Appendix A for 
each period for which they provided emergency substitute 
service.  This shall not apply to substituting under the 
provisions of section 11.3.3.  

In instances of emergency, unit members at the elementary level may be 
assigned to cover classes or be assigned additional students.  Unit 
administrators will first request volunteers when the occasion arises.  In 
the event that there are no volunteers, or insufficient volunteers to cover 
necessary periods, the unit administrator will assign unit members on a 
rotation schedule. 

12.13.2.1  Unit members at the elementary level shall be paid an 

amount not greater than the District daily substitute rate for 
each class of students for which they provide emergency 
substitute service.  If more than one (1) unit member 
provides substitute service for the same class, the amount 
of the daily substitute rate shall be prorated.  At no time 
shall the prorated amount, for the coverage of one (1) class, 
be more than the daily rate of a regular full day substitute. 

12.14.1 

In case of a request for verification of salary and employment status 
from a lending institution,  the District shall provide only such 
information as authorized by the unit member on a credit application or 
in writing to the District. 

 
12.15  Extended Learning Academies   
 

Extended Learning Academies are defined as District-offered instructional/tutorial 
programs that occur outside the contracted instructional days in the school 
calendar.  Extended Learning Academies will be offered contingent on funding.  
Participation in Extended Learning Academies will be at the discretion of the unit 
member.  Staff Assignments are subject to sufficient enrollment to maintain 
classes and will be dictated by program requirements. 

 

 

 

 

12.15.1  Salary 

 

12.15.1.1 

$29.00. 
 
12.15.1.2 

 

12.15.2  Postings 

12.15.2.1 

Hourly rate for extended Learning Academies will be 

For summer elementary and secondary programs, in 
addition to the hourly rate, prep time of four (4) hours 
(preparation day) and one (1) hour weekly will be paid at 
the same rate.  Proficiency lab teachers do not qualify for 
weekly preparation time. 

The District will post a notice at all sites of summer 
school/extended learning academy positions including, but 
not limited to a description of that position, eligibility 
requirements, selection criteria, days, hours and job 
responsibilities, salary and applicable deadlines and 
application procedures. 

 
12.15.2.2               All efforts will be made to post teaching positions for 

summer programs nine (9) weeks prior to the start of the 
first day of the programs.  Deadline for applications will be 
approximately twenty (20) days after posting.  Teachers will 
be offered assignments two (2) weeks prior to the first day 
of summer school with the exception of classes formed 
after the two-week period. 

12.15.3  Selection Process 

12.15.3.1 

The most qualified applicants will be selected through a 
process that includes an application, interview, and 
reference check.  The Human Resources Division will 
organize interview panels that consist of administrative and 
teacher representatives. 

12.15.3.2               Applicants for ELA/Summer programs must  a) meet 

District eligibility criteria,  b) have filed an application by 
the deadline date,  c) be presently employed in the District 
on a regular contract, and d) have positive 
recommendations during their regular year assignment 
and/or summer school extended learning academies.  If all 
eligibility requirements are equal, 

a.      Teachers who have permanent status will have 

preference over probationary, hourly, and 
temporary teachers. 

b.     Teachers who did not teach summer school last 

year would have preference over those who taught 
summer school last year. 

12.15.3.3               Prospective summer program personnel shall be ineligible 

for any assignment which would be interrupted by military, 
or any other foreseeable obligation.  Acceptance of a 
summer program assignment shall signify that no such 
obligation exists. 

12.15.3.3.1     A teaching assignment for a summer program 

shall be mutually agreed upon by the unit 
member and the District.  If an assignment is 
accepted by a teacher and later is changed by 
administrative action or insufficient enrollment 
within five (5) days of the start of summer 
school, that teacher will be compensated for 
four (4) hours of preparation time.  If a 
teacher’s assignment is terminated due to 
insufficient enrollment, that teacher will be 
provided a priority substitute position. 

 

 

 
12.15.4  Sick Leave 

 

Each bargaining unit member will receive one (1) day of sick leave for 
elementary and secondary summer programs.  In addition, unit members 
will be entitled to an additional two (2) days of differential pay which is 
the member’s daily rate less the cost of a substitute.  After three (3) days, 
absences will be subject to administrative review that may result in 
termination of the member’s summer school assignment. 

 

 

 

 

12.15.5  Substitutes 

ELA substitutes shall be selected from both the district regular full-time 
teaching staff and district substitute staff.  However, priority will be 
given, whenever possible, to regular full-time teachers when making 
substitute assignments. 

12.15.6  Materials 

The district will make a timely and good faith effort to provide teachers 
with materials and textbooks (including teacher editions) that are 
approved for ELA programs. 

ARTICLE 13.  Health and Welfare Benefits 

(New Language Pending Ratification Under Construction) 

An Insurance Committee, composed of two (2) members selected by the 
employee groups, shall be responsible for surveying, monitoring, and making 
recommendations to determine the health insurance package.  

Any cost of medical benefits for dependents, shall be deducted from the unit 
member’s paycheck upon authorization by the unit member. 

 
13.1  For the 1998-99 school year the Board shall set aside for each eligible unit member 

an amount equal to $5232 for the sole purpose of securing health and welfare 
benefit coverage for all eligible members of the bargaining unit. 

  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

13.1.1  Available Health Plans 

Preferred Provider Organization (PPO), Exclusive Provider Organization (EPO), 
PacificCare (HMO) United Concordia Dental (DHMO), Preferred Provider Dental 
(PPD/FFS). shall be offered for selection to all eligible participants. 

13.1.2  Active Members - Premium Payment 

For full-time employees who, PacificCare (HMO), Exclusive 
Provider Organization (EPO), United Concordia Dental (DHMO) 
there will be no premium deduction. 

For full-time single employees who select the Preferred Provider 
Organization (PPO) there will be no premium deduction.  For full-
time employees who select the PPO/EPO plan, Preferred Provider 
Dental (PPD/FFS) the premium deductions shall not exceed $25.13 
per month (10thly) for medical and $5.26 per month (10thly) for 
dental fee-for-service plan.  There will be no monthly premium for 
the DHMO dental plan. 

If both spouses are employed full-time by the District and either 
select the PPO plan and enrolls the other spouse as a dependent, 
there will be no premium deduction for the dual spouses and their 
eligible dependents. The District’s contribution for both employees 
exceeds the premium costs for employee and dependent coverage. 

A. 

 
B. 

 
C. 

 

 
 
13.1.3  Retirees - Premium Payments 

 

A. 

B. 

 
C. 

For single, eligible retirees who select the PacifiCare or EPO 
medical plans  there will be no premium payments .  EPO 
participants may select the Concordia Dental program at no 
additional costs.  EPO participants who select the PPD/ Fee-for-
Service Dental Plan will pay a premium of $4.38 (12thly) or $5.26 
(10thly). 

For single eligible retirees who select the PPO plan, there will be a 
monthly premium of $101.75 (12thly) for medical and $4.38 
(12thly) for the PPD/FFS Dental plan. There is no monthly 
premium for those who select the United Concordia dental plan. 

If both spouses are eligible retirees of the District, and both select 
the PPO plan, there will be no premium payment for the dual 
spouses.  The family rate premium will be $34.06 (12thly) for 
dependents. 

 
13.1.4  Dependent Coverage 

A. 

There will be no premium charge for active full-time employees or 
retirees to have their eligible dependents participate in PacifiCare or 
EPO plans. 

B.              For active full-time employees’ eligible dependents who select 
PPO, the monthly (12thly) payroll deduction shall not exceed: 

Medical 

$188.10 
$244.04 

Fee for Service 

Dental 
$16.57 
$21.47 

Mida United 

Concordia Dental 

0 
0 

C.              For eligible retirees with dependents who select PPO, the monthly 

(12thly) premium charge shall not exceed: 

Medical 

$369.12 

  

Fee for Service 

Dental 
$13.81 
$17.89 

United Concordia 

Dental 

0 
0 

 
  

Two Party 
Family 
 

 

  

Two Party 
Family 
 

  

 

D.    For eligible retirees with eligible dependents who select PacifiCare, the 

monthly (12thly) premium charge for Fee For Service Dental shall 
not exceed: 

Two Party 
Family 

$4.84 

  

 
13.2  Any unit member employed after April 1, 1977, who works less than full time but 

50% or more of a full-time contract, shall receive a prorated fringe benefit 
contribution from the district in proportion to the number of hours per week or 
days per month of scheduled duty worked. 

 
13.3  Unit members hired prior to April 1, 1977, who work less than full time but fifty 
(50) percent or more of a full-time contract and who, on April 27, 1977, received 
fully paid benefits from the District, shall not have their benefits diminished 
because of the provisions in 13.2 above. 

 
13.4  Unit members who work less than fifty (50) percent of a full-time contract shall 

not receive any health and welfare benefits with the exception of 15.3.1. 

 
13.5  Following the death of an employee, the District shall provide benefits for 

dependents and spouse of the employee for a period of up to one (1) year, if 
authorized by the health benefits carrier, and to an extent equal to the fullest 
manner authorized by the health benefits carrier. 

 
13.6  Unit members who are on a Board approved unpaid leave of absence shall have 

the option to continue to participate in the District health and welfare benefit 
program for a maximum of three (3) years at no cost to the District.  Participation 
in such a benefit program shall be subject to any limitations imposed by the health 
benefits carrier and reasonable requirements established by the District regarding 
timely premium payments. 

 
13.7  Unit members may participate in tax sheltered annuity programs of their choice, at 
no cost to the District.  Companies involved in tax sheltered annuity programs for 
employees must appear on the Board approved list in advance.  The District shall 
provide payroll deductions for this purpose.  

 
13.8     The District shall provide pre-employment physicals, any physical which may be 
required                          (other than those related to the leave provisions of Article 
10), and tuberculosis examinations at no cost to the unit member. 

ARTICLE 14.  Part-time Employment With Full Retirement 

Credit 

 
14.1  Upon request of an eligible unit member, the Board of Education shall grant part-
time employment with full-time retirement credit.  Eligibility shall be based upon 
the following criteria: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14.1.1  The unit member must have reached the age of fifty-five (55); 

14.1.2  The unit member must have been employed full time in a position 

requiring certification for at least ten (10) years, of which the immediately 
preceding five years were full-time employment; 

 
14.1.3  The option of part-time employment must be exercised at the request of 
the unit member and can be revoked only with the mutual consent of the 
District and the unit member; 

14.1.4  The unit member shall be paid a salary which is a pro rata share of the 
salary he/she would be earning had he/she not elected to exercise the 
option of part-time employment; 

14.1.5  The unit member shall receive health benefits in the same manner as a full-

time unit member; 

14.1.6  The unit member shall make the contribution required of full-time 

members of the State Teachers’ Retirement System.  Such contributions 
shall be based on an amount which the unit member would be earning 
were he/she employed full time.  The District shall make such 
contributions as are required; 

14.1.7  The minimum part-time employment shall be the equivalent of fifty (50) 
percent of a full-time assignment or one-half (1/2) of the number of days 
of service required by the unit member’s contract of employment during 
his/her final year of service in a full-time position.  This part-time 
arrangement may be of two types: 

14.1.7.1 

Part-time all year during the regular school term; 

14.1.7.2 

Full-time for a semester. 

14.1.8  Such an agreement is limited to a period of five (5) years; 

14.1.9  The unit member shall apply no later than March 1 prior to the school year 

in which the part-time employment commences. 

 
14.2  At completion of or resignation from this program, unit members shall be 

separated from District service. 

 
14.3  During the period of such part-time employment, the District may determine the 

unit member’s site, time configuration, and assignment; however, involuntary 
assignments shall not be made to a school of a different level (i.e., elementary, 
middle, or high, except high school unit members may be assigned to the middle 
school). 

 

ARTICLE 15.  Shared Contract Employment 

 
15.1  The District will make a reasonable effort to accommodate requests by unit 

members to be given contracts for less than full time provided that: 

15.1.1  The site administrator and the District Human Resources administrator 

agrees that a part-time or shared contract assignment can be 
accommodated in the District and maintains standards of student learning. 

 
15.1.2   The unit member notifies the District no later than May 1 prior to the 

school year in which he/she requests part-time employment or a shared 
contract. 

 
15.2  Part Time:  Unit members may be employed for less than full time 
 

15.2.1   For unit members on a part time contract, the percentage of contract shall 
be equal to the percentage of the instructional minutes per day, week, or 
year served or percentage of work day or week.  In addition, part-time 
contracts will include prorated responsibility for school related activities as 
is necessary to provide for student needs and a quality educational 
program. 

 
15.2.2   A fifty (50) percent contract either in the fall or spring semester is classified 

as part time.  A fifty (50) percent elementary school assignment shall be 
either full time in the fall or spring semester; or a job sharing arrangement 
by mutual agreement between two (2) current unit members and the 
District administration. 

15.2.3   During the period of such part-time employment, the District will 

determine the unit member’s assignment and site. 

  
 

 

 

 

15.3         Shared Contract:  A shared contract arrangement consists of two teachers who 

split a full-time assignment in which they share students and have mutual 
responsibility for curricular planning, grading standards, parental 
conferences/communication and site responsibilities on an ongoing basis through 
the duration of the shared contract. 

15.3.1. Each of the teachers sharing a contract shall receive prorated sick leave and 

other mandated benefits based on one FTE (full-time equivalent.)  Health 
benefits are to be prorated in the same percentage as the teaching contract. 

 

 

15.3.2   The shared contract arrangement shall be reviewed annually and will only 

continue with mutual agreement of the teachers, site administrator, and 
District Human Resources administrator.  Evaluation of teachers will be 
consistent with Article 6 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 

15.3.3   In the situation in which a shared contract position is terminated, the 

teacher shall be reassigned according to provisions of Article 8. 

 

15.4         Each unit member will be advanced on the salary schedule based on provisions in 

Article  11, of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 

 
15.5  Any unit member teaching in grades 7 through 12 on a part-day contract shall be 

obligated to a pro-rata daily preparation period as indicated below: 

% of Contract 

Teaching Periods Per Day 

Prep Periods Per Day 

100 
80 
60 

5 
4 
3 

1.0 
.8 
.6 

15.6  Nothing in the above shall preclude a unit member from selecting a full-time 

assignment following a part-time contract period.  Teachers who wish to request a 
change in the percentage of their contract must notify the District prior to May 1.  
The provisions of 15.1.2 and 15.3.3 shall apply to unit members electing to return 
to a full-time contract following a part-time contract. 

 
15.7  Nothing in the above shall preclude the authority of a unit member and the District 

to mutually agree at any time to an assignment of less than full time. 

 

 

ARTICLE 16.  Retirement Benefits 

 
16.1  Eligibility (Unit members are advised to consult STRS to determine any possible 

early retirement penalties.) 

16.1.1  Age - fifty-five (55) or more, but less than sixty-five (65) years of age. 

16.1.2  Age - fifty (50) to fifty-five (55) with a minimum of thirty (30) years of 

service in California. 

16.1.3  Length of Service.  A minimum of ten (10) years of consecutive service in 
the Newport-Mesa Unified School District.  A District-approved leave of 
absence shall not constitute a break in service for the purpose of this 
section. 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16.2   Benefits 
 

16.2.1  Health and Dental Insurance 

16.2.1.1 

16.2.1.2 

16.2.1.3 

16.2.1.4 

The District will provide the health and dental insurance 
program in effect for regular full-time employees in each of 
the years involved at no premium cost to the participant for 
self-coverage upon retirement, until the participant attains 
age sixty-five (65), or qualifies for other benefits. 

The participant may maintain dependent coverage by 
paying the District in advance for the premiums required for 
such coverage. 

A group plan for participants at their own expense for 
themselves and their dependents will be offered after age 
sixty-five (65), and available through the District carriers. 

Upon the death of the participant, the health and dental 
insurance program in effect for regular, full-time employees 
for each of the years involved in the District will be 
provided to the surviving covered dependents for a period 
of one (1) year following the death of the participant. 

16.2.2  Life Insurance 

16.2.2.1 

 
16.2.2.2 

 

The District will continue to provide the life insurance 
coverage in effect in each of the years involved to age sixty-
five (65) for the participant. 

A group plan for participants at their own expense for 
themselves and their dependents will be offered after age 
sixty-five (65), and available through the District carriers. 

16.3  STRS “Golden Handshake”  
 

The District shall offer a two-year (2) credit allowance “Golden Handshake” 
inducement for retirement when the provisions of Education Code Section 22726 
can be met. 

16.3.2  N-MFT reserves the right to bargain other retirement incentives. 

 

 

  

 

 

 

17.2   Procedures 
 

 

 

ARTICLE 17.  Grievance Procedure 

 
17.1  Definition of Terms 
 

17.1.1  Grievant — an individual employee in the bargaining unit covered by the 

terms of this agreement who alleges a grievance. 

17.1.2  Grievance — an allegation by a grievant that he/she has been adversely 
affected by a  

misinterpretation, a misapplication, or a violation of the specific provisions 
of this agreement. 

17.1.2.1 

Adult Education and other hourly certificated employees 
shall have the right to grieve only those articles in the 
contract that are listed in Article 21 pertaining to Adult 
Education and other hourly certificated unit members 
employed in other categorical programs.  The following 
articles were determined to be applicable to Adult 
Education and other hourly employees with regard to 
grievance rights: 1, 2, 4 ,5, 6, 10, 12, 16, 17, and 21. 

17.1.3  Day — a day in which the District Office is open for business, except for 

winter and spring vacation periods. 

 
17.1.4  Supervising Administrator — the administrator who has responsibility for 

implementing the decision which gives rise to the grievance. 

17.2.1  Informal Level.  Before filing a formal grievance, the grievant shall, within 

15 days after the occurrence or act of omission giving rise to the alleged 
grievance or when the grievant could reasonably be expected to know of 
the event which gives rise to the grievance, attempt to resolve the alleged 
grievance by an informal conference with the supervising administrator. 

 
17.2.2  Formal Level.  If an informal settlement has not been effected, the grievant 

may file a formal grievance. 

17.2.2.1 

Level One.  The formal grievance must be filed on the 
appropriate District form with the supervising administrator 
within twenty (20) days after the occurrence or act of 
omission giving rise to the alleged grievance or when the 
grievant could reasonably be expected to know of the event 

 

 

 

which gives rise to the grievance.  A copy of the grievance 
statement shall be filed with the Assistant Superintendent. 

 
 
The form shall include statements indicating: 
 
a.  How the individual employee was adversely affected; 
b.  The specific section of the contract allegedly 

misinterpreted, misapplied, or violated; 

c.  The specific remedy sought by the employee to resolve 

d.  The name of the individual, if any, authorized to 

the grievance; and 

represent the grievant. 

 
17.2.2.1.1   

17.2.2.2 

 
Level Two. 
OPTION 1: 

The supervising administrator shall 
communicate his/her response to the 
grievant in writing within ten (10) days after 
receipt of the grievance. 

If the alleged grievance is not resolved at 
Level One, the grievant may appeal the 
decision on the appropriate form to the 
Superintendent or his/her designee within 
ten (10) days of the receipt of the Level One 
response.  This statement shall include a 
copy of the original grievance, the response, 
and a clear, concise statement of the reasons 
for the appeal. 

17.2.2.2.1 

The Superintendent or his/her 
designee shall communicate 
his/her response to the 
grievant and supervising 
administrator in writing 
within ten (10) days after the 
receipt of the grievance. 

OPTION 2:  The grievant may submit the grievance to the 

Alternative Dispute Resolution Team 
(ADRT).  (This is an impartial, 
Union/District shared representation 
committee which is trained to problem solve 
in dispute resolution.) 

   

 

17.2.2.3 

Level Three.  If the alleged grievance is not resolved at 
Level Two, the grievant may, within twenty (20) days after 
receipt of the Level Two response, request that the Union 
submit the grievance to advisory arbitration.  A copy of the 
request to the Union shall be forwarded to the 
Superintendent or his/her designee.  The Union shall notify 
the Superintendent in writing within fifteen (15) days after 
receipt of the request from the grievant as to whether or not 
the grievance will be submitted for advisory arbitration; 
however, the Union may not take a grievance to advisory 
arbitration without the written consent of the grievant. 

17.2.2.3.1 

 
17.2.2.3.2 

 
17.2.2.3.3 

 
17.2.2.3.4 

 
17.2.2.3.5 

The Union and the District shall attempt to 
agree upon an arbitrator.  If no agreement 
can be reached within five (5) days, they 
shall request the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service to supply a list of 
names of persons who are experienced in 
arbitration.  Selection of the arbitrator shall 
be made in accordance with American 
Arbitration Association selection 
procedures. 

The fees and expenses of the arbitrator and 
the hearing shall be borne equally by the 
District and the Union.  All other expenses 
shall be borne by the party incurring them. 

Upon request of either party, the arbitrator 
shall rule upon the arbitrability of the 
grievance prior to accepting or hearing 
arguments on the grievance itself. 

The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, 
subtract from, or modify the terms of the 
contract or applicable law or rules and 
regulations which have the force and effect 
of law. 

The issues before the arbitrator shall be 
restricted to those identified in the written 
grievance and the answers thereto at each 
step.  The arbitrator shall hear evidence and 
argument as soon as possible and shall 

 
17.2.2.3.6 

17.2.2.3.7 

 

deliver to the parties within thirty (30) days a 
written recommendation on the issues 
submitted to him/her. 

The arbitrator shall use the rules of the 
American Arbitration Association.  By 
mutual agreement of the District and the 
Union, American Arbitration  Association 
rules of expedited arbitration shall apply. 

The decision of the arbitrator shall be in the 
form of a recommendation to the parties.  If 
neither the District nor the Union files a 
request to the Board of Education to 
undertake review of the arbitrator’s 
recommendation within ten (10) days of its 
issuance, then the decision of the arbitrator 
shall be deemed adopted by the Board and 
becomes final and binding on all parties.  If a 
timely request for review is filed with the 
Board, it shall then undertake review of the 
entire hearing records and briefs.  The Board 
shall, at the request of either party, permit 
oral arguments by representatives of the 
parties.  Within thirty (30) days after 
receiving the request for review, the Board 
shall render a decision on the matter which 
shall be final and binding on all parties, 
subject only to judicial review. 

 
 
 
17.3  Miscellaneous Provisions Applicable to the Above 
 

 

17.3.1  If the supervising administrator or the Superintendent or his/her designee 
fails to comply with the time limits set forth, the grievant may process the 
grievance to the next level of the grievance procedure.  If any time limit in 
this article is not met by the grievant, it is deemed that the grievant 
considers the grievance to have been resolved. 

 
17.3.2  All documents, communications, and records dealing with the processing 

of a grievance shall be filed separately from the personnel files of the 
participants. 

17.3.3  No reprisals of any kind shall be taken by the Superintendent or any 

member or representative of the District against a grievant or person who 
assisted the grievant by reason of a person being a grievant or a person 
who assisted the grievant, nor shall any reprisals of any kind be taken by 
the Union or any unit member against either the grievant, the District, any 
District employee, or any participant in the grievance procedure by reason 
of such participation or decisions. 

 
17.3.4  If the grievant requests assistance from the Union, the District shall provide 

reasonable release time for the Union representative and the grievant for 
the purposes of grievance conferences and hearings. 

 
17.3.5  At all levels of the grievance procedure, the site/ unit administrator of the 
grievant shall receive a copy of each communication exchanged between 
the grievant and the supervising administrator, if such supervising 
administrator is other than the site/unit administrator. 

 
17.3.6  At all levels of the grievance procedure, the grievant shall have the right of 
representation.  Such representation shall not be provided by an agent of a 
teacher organization other than the exclusive bargaining agent.  No 
grievance shall be settled until the Union has received a copy of the 
grievance and been given an opportunity to respond. 

 
17.3.7  A grievance may be presented by a grievant on behalf of a group of 

grievants provided the following conditions are met: 

17.3.7.1 

 
17.3.7.2 

 
17.3.7.3 

 
17.3.7.4 

Each of the grievances involves the same contract provision 
or provisions; 

Each of the grievances involves substantially similar facts 
and conditions; and 

Each of the grievants who is affected by the grievance is 
named and one presents the grievance on behalf of all 
grievants. 

The decision on the grievance shall be deemed to be the 
decision applicable to all named grievants to the extent 
substantially similar facts and conditions exist. 

 

 

17.3.8  By mutual agreement, the grievant and the District may extend any time 

limit set forth in this article. 

 
17.3.9  A conference between the grievant and appropriate administrator shall be 

held at Level One and Level Two prior to a written response. 

 

  

ARTICLE 18.  Nondiscrimination 

 
18.1  The District shall not discriminate in the assignment, transfer, or evaluation of a 

unit member because of membership or non-membership in an employee 
organization, ethnic background, religion, age, sex, political affiliation, or private 
life of a unit member. 

Adult Education and Other Hourly Certificated 

Employees 

 
Only Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 16, 17, and 18 shall apply to Adult Education and other 
hourly certificated unit members employed in other categorical programs. 
 
19.1  Definition 
 

19.1.1  Adult Education and other hourly certificated unit members employed in 
other categorical programs, shall be defined as those certificated personnel 
who have a signed contract with N-MUSD with specified hours of 
employment at the appropriate hourly rate. 

  
 

ARTICLE 19 

 
19.2 
 

 

Job Security 

19.2.1 The District shall make every effort to re-staff continuing programs each 

year with returning personnel within each program. 

 
19.2.2 Re-staffing For Fall 

19.2.2.1 

 
19.2.2.2 

 
19.2.2.3 

Tentative list for Adult Education courses (for fall of same 
year) will be provided to current staff by June 15, along 
with form requesting teacher’s interest in other and/or 
additional assignments.  Staff will turn in assignment 
request form prior to close of year. 

By June 15, all hourly teaching staff will also receive a list 
indicating priority standing for fall staffing regarding total 
hours, according to date of hire (not as aide) and 
qualifications. 

Program hours permitting, and funding available, each staff 
member will retain his/her previous year’s hours according 
to priority identified in 19.2.5.  Additional hours that are 
proposed after staff positions are reinstated will be 
considered TBD (To Be Determined) assignments. 
a.  These additional hours will be posted for 5 working days 

starting July 1. 

 
b.  A staff member who applies for a position and is not 

selected, may, upon request, be informed by the 
administrator of the criteria used in selection. 

19.2.2.4 

 
An Adult Education master course schedule will be posted 
at school sites.  The master course schedule will specify 
instructor, course, hours and site/room number.  Any 
revision to the schedule will be posted within ten (10) days 
of a change. 

 

 

19.2.3  At  the beginning of the contract year, current certificated employees in 

Adult Education and other hourly certificated unit members employed in 
other categorical programs, meeting qualifications as specified by the job 
description, shall have first priority for staffing of current courses and 
programs, vacant positions, or new program offerings before outside 
candidates are hired. 

 
19.2.4  If additional hours and/or assignments become available during the school 

year, all Adult Education and other hourly certificated unit members 
employed in other categorical programs, shall be notified by a memo 
posted in a designated location at each school site for a period of not less 
than five (5) working days.  To be considered, unit members must submit 
their names in writing to the Director of Adult Education/Federal Projects 
or designee as listed on the memo. 

19.2.4.1 

Additional assignments that are offered to, and accepted by, 
a staff member during the school term, will be confirmed in 
writing from the administrator. 

19.2.5  Re-staffing After Reduction In Force (RIF) 

19.2.5.1 

 

In the case of current Adult Education and other hourly 
certificated unit members employed in other categorical 
programs, who are not to be re-employed due to declining 
enrollment or lack of funding, the following criteria shall 
apply: 

Required credential authorization(s). 

Major(s), minor(s) or area(s) of 
specialization required in the job description. 

19.2.5.1.1 
 
19.2.5.1.2 

 
19.2.5.1.3 

Skills and individual capabilities as specified 
in the job description. 

 
19.2.5.1.4              If all of the above factors are substantially 
equal, then the unit member with the most 
seniority in Adult Education and other 

 

 

hourly certificated unit members employed 
in other categorical programs, shall be re-
employed. 

Reinstatement of hours worked will be effected to the best 
of the administrator’s ability within scheduling constraints. 

 
19.2.5.2 

 
19.3  Disbursement Schedule 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

19.3.1  Commencing with the regular certificated payday for the month of 

September each year, all Adult Education and other hourly certificated unit 
members employed in other categorical programs, shall be paid monthly 
with ten (10) equal payments based on contracted hours. 

19.4  Adult Education and Other Hourly Certificated Employees’ Salary Schedule 
 

19.4.1  Effective July 1, 1998 Adult Education and other hourly certificated unit 
members employed in other categorical programs, will be placed on the 
salary schedule based upon the years of experience within the District in 
Adult Education and other hourly categorical programs as follows: 

Step 1   
Step 2   
Step 3   

1st year 
2nd year 
3+ years 

salary schedule. 

19.4.2  Years of experience in the K-12 classroom program do not apply to this 

 
19.4.3  For step placement and advancement, a completed year of service shall be 

defined  
as seventy-five (75) percent or more of the days as specified in the 
contracted assignment within a school year - September through June. 

 
 
19.4.4  All Adult Education and other hourly certificated unit members employed 
in other categorical programs shall be paid at the appropriate hourly rate as 
indicated in Appendix A. 

19.5  Stipends 
 

19.5.1  Bilingual Credential, and Language Development Specialist Certificate 

stipends from Appendix A, pro rata based on an eight (8) hour day, shall 
apply to all Adult Education an other hourly certificated unit members 
employed in other categorical programs. 

19.6  Additional Compensations 
 

19.6.1  Adult Education and other hourly certificated unit members employed in 

other categorical programs shall be compensated at their regular hourly 
rate for attendance at all meetings scheduled or conducted by the 
administration outside of regular working hours.  Payment for said 
meetings shall be made at the end of each semester. 

  

 

ARTICLE 20.  Miscellaneous 

 
20.1  Each elementary school shall be allocated annually an amount equal to seventy-

five dollars ($75) per classroom teacher for use by the teacher to purchase 
classroom supplemental materials. 

20.1.1  Special Education/Special Day class teachers shall be annually allocated 
special education funds for classroom materials and supplies to carry out 
the instructional program.  Thirty dollars ($30) of this allocation may be 
used by the teachers in accordance with section 19.1, above. 

 

 

 

20.1.2  Individual teachers shall have the right, in consultation with the principal, 

to spend these funds as they deem appropriate. 

 
20.2  Except in the case of a Board-declared emergency, the District shall provide the 
Union with fifteen (15) days advance notification regarding any amendment or 
recision of written District Board Policy or Board Rules and Regulations which fall 
within the scope of representation as defined by Section 3543.2 of the California 
Government Code.  The notice to the Union shall indicate the current written 
Board Policy or written administrative Rules and Regulations and shall indicate 
any proposed amendments.  Prior to the first reading, the Union shall be given the 
right, upon request, to meet with the Superintendent or his/her designee.  In 
addition, the Union shall be given the right to make a public presentation regarding 
the proposed amendment(s) or recision(s). 

 
20.3  The District may suspend without pay for a specific period of time on the grounds 

of unprofessional conduct a unit member, as authorized in Education Code 
Section 44932(b) pursuant to the procedures specified in Sections 44933, 44934, 
44935, 44936, 44937, 44943, and 44944. 

20.3.1  A request for reconsideration of the accusation specified in Education 

Code Section 44938 may be filed with the Assistant Superintendent with 
a copy to the Union President.  This request must be filed within five (5) 
days of receipt of the accusation. 

 
20.3.2  The Assistant Superintendent will hold a hearing within five (5) days of 
receipt of the request.  The Union may represent the unit member at the 
hearing. 

 

20.3.2.1         The Assistant Superintendent will notify the unit member and 

the Union of the results of the hearing within five (5) days of 
the hearing. 

ARTICLE 21.  Savings Provision 

 
21.1 

If any provisions of this agreement are held to be contrary to law by the Public 
Employment Relations Board or a court of competent jurisdiction, such 
provisions shall not be deemed valid and subsisting except to the extent permitted 
by law, but all other provisions shall continue in full force and effect. 

 
21.2  The Union and the District shall meet to renegotiate said provisions within thirty 

(30) calendar days. 

  
 

 

ARTICLE 22.  Completion of Meet and Negotiate 

22.1  This agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties.  All matters not 

specifically enumerated within the provisions of this contract are expressly reserved to the 
District. 

