Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

43

Language English

Country United States

State OR

Union SEIU (Service Employees International Union) AFL-CIO

Local Local 503, Oregon Public Employees Union

Multiple occupations represented

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Oregon State Board of Higher Education
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear

[unknown]

EndYear 2003

Source

http://www.ous.edu/hr/labor/ousopeu/tableofcontents

Original_format HTML (multipart)

Notes

Contact

Connie L. Lange, Human Resources Assistant, Oregon University System, PO Box 3175, 
Eugene, OR  97403, phone (541) 346-5832, connie_lange@ous.edu

Full text contract begins on following page.

ARTICLE 1 - PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT 
 
This Agreement is entered into between the Oregon Public Employees Union, Local 503, SEIU, 
AFL-CIO, CLC (Union) and the Oregon State Board of Higher Education (OSBHE) (Employer) 
acting by and through the Office of the Chancellor in the Oregon University System (OUS) on 
behalf of the following universities/colleges: Eastern Oregon University, Oregon Institute of 
Technology, Oregon State University, Portland State University, Southern Oregon University, 
University of Oregon, and Western Oregon University. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION 

Section 1. The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for all 
classified employees in positions represented by the Union at the universities designated in 
Article 1 and for all classified positions currently represented by the Union in the Chancellor's 
office. This recognition does not apply to employees currently represented by other labor 
organizations, students who are not classified employees, unclassified, exempt, temporary, 
supervisory, managerial and confidential employees as defined by law or as determined by the 
Employment Relations Board. The Employer agrees to provide the Union with no less than twenty 
(20) days notice of its intent to exclude a filled bargaining unit position based on supervisory, 
confidential, or managerial status. The effective date of the exclusion remains unchanged. 

Section 2. The Employer and the Union have established a single bargaining unit made up of 
employees at the universities/college designated in Article 1. 

Section 3. When there has been a determination of the Employment Relations Board to modify 
the bargaining unit or when the parties reach mutual agreement to modify, negotiations will be 
entered into as needed or as required by law. 

Section 4. 

(A) Temporary appointments shall be used for the purpose of meeting emergency, nonrecurring 
or short-term workload needs. Employment of a temporary worker, other than to replace a 
regular employee on leave, shall not exceed the equivalent of six calendar months (1,040 hours) 
in a twelve-month period, except when the university/college has granted an extension based on 
the following conditions: 1) the work to be performed continues and is the same work performed 
as at the time of the initial appointment; and, 2) no other reasonable means exist to get the work 
done. In the case of such extensions, the university/college will notify the Union in writing of the 
extension and specify the circumstances necessitating the extension. A temporary appointment 
made to replace a regular employee on leave shall not exceed the period of the leave. 

(B) Grievances alleging a violation of this section may be submitted only by the Union directly to 
the University/College President or designee.  

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 3 - SCOPE OF AGREEMENT 
 
Section 1. This Agreement binds the Union, its bargaining unit members and any person 
designated by it to act on behalf of the Union. Likewise, this Agreement binds the Employer and 
any person designated to act on behalf of the Employer. 
 
Section 2. This Agreement supersedes all prior collective bargaining agreements and Letters of 
Agreement negotiated between the Union and the Oregon University System acting by and 
through the Office of the Chancellor. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 4 - TERM OF AGREEMENT 

Section 1. This Agreement shall become effective upon ratification by the Parties and expires 
June 30, 2003 except where specifically stated otherwise in this Agreement. 

Section 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1 of this Article, either Party may elect to 
reopen this Agreement within thirty (30) days of February 1, 2001 for the purpose of negotiating 
Article 21 - Salary, Article 24 - Insurance, and up to three (3) additional articles to be selected by 
each party. The Parties shall schedule and conduct negotiations at a mutually agreeable time and 
place. Initial proposals will be exchanged on the additional articles by April 15, 2001. Proposals 
on Article 21 and 24 will be exchanged by June 1, 2001. The parties agree to a 90-day rather 
than a 150-day timeline. At the initiation of either party on or after July 1, 2001, there will be a 
joint request for mediation. Article 8 of this Agreement shall not apply after exhaustion of the 
applicable dispute resolution procedures pursuant to ORS 243.712 - ORS 243.726. 

Section 3. Either party may give written notice during the period of October 15 - November 15, 
2002 of its desire to negotiate a successor Agreement. Such negotiations shall commence with an 
exchange of written proposals by the parties no later than the first week in December 2002. 

Section 4. This Agreement shall not be opened during the term of the agreement except by 
mutual agreement of the parties, by proper use of Article 7 - Separability, or as provided in 
Section 2 of this Article or as otherwise specified in this Agreement.  

 
 

ARTICLE 5 - COMPLETE AGREEMENT/PAST PRACTICES 

Section 1. Complete Agreement 

Pursuant to their statutory obligations to bargain in good faith, the Employer and the Union have 
met in full and free discussion concerning matters in "employment relations" as defined by ORS 
243.650(7). This Agreement incorporates the sole and complete agreement between the 
Employer and the Union resulting from these negotiations. The Union agrees that the Employer 
has no further obligation during the term of this Agreement to bargain wages, hours or working 
conditions except as specified below. The Employer agrees that during the term of this 
Agreement it may not unilaterally change employee wages or hours. "Working conditions" 
established by a specific provision of this Agreement may not be unilaterally changed. Other 

"working conditions" not covered by this Agreement may only be changed pursuant to the 
restrictions and procedures in Section 2. 

Section 2. Past Practices 

(A) The parties recognize the Employer's full right to direct the work force and to issue work 
orders and rules and that these rights are diminished only by the law and this Agreement, 
including arbitrator's awards which may evolve pursuant to this Agreement. 

(B) (1) The Employer may change or issue new work practices or rules covering permissive 
subjects of bargaining, including issuing administrative rules over issues which are nonnegotiable 
and are not in conflict with or otherwise addressed in a specific provision of this Agreement. The 
Employer agrees to bargain over any proposed changes in "working conditions" or their impact 
which are mandatory subjects of bargaining. 

(2) If the Employer believes the change is a mandatory subject of bargaining, the parties shall 
meet within ten (10) days of the Union's request to meet. One (1) Union Steward from the 
affected university/college will be allowed to use university/college time without loss of pay or 
benefits to participate in these negotiations. The Employer will not be liable for any overtime, 
premium pay, travel reimbursement or mileage for the Union Steward. 

(3) The Union may file an unfair labor practice complaint with the Employment Relations Board if 
the Employer refuses to bargain. If the Board rules that the change is a permissive or prohibited 
subject of bargaining, the Union shall withdraw its demand to bargain. If the Board determines 
the change is a mandatory subject of bargaining, the parties shall meet to negotiate this subject 
change. 

(4) If, after bargaining, the parties do not reach agreement, the Union may exercise its right to 
utilize the dispute resolution procedures under ORS 243.712-ORS 243.726, including the right to 
strike (notwithstanding Article 8 of this Agreement).  

 
 
ARTICLE 6 - LEGISLATIVE ACTION 
 
Section 1. Provisions of this Agreement not requiring legislative funding or statutory changes 
before they can be put into effect shall be implemented on the effective date of this Agreement 
or the date otherwise specified in this Agreement. Necessary bills for implementation of the other 
provisions shall be submitted promptly by the OUS to the Legislative Assembly and both parties 
shall jointly recommend passage of the funding and statutory changes. 
 
Section 2. Should the Legislature not be in session at the time agreement is reached, the 
funding provisions of this Agreement shall be promptly submitted to the Emergency Board by the 
OUS and both parties shall jointly recommend passage. 
 
Section 3. Should the Legislature not be in session at the time agreement is reached, all other 
legislation necessary for the implementation of this Agreement shall be submitted to the next 
session (whether regular or special) of the Legislative Assembly. 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 7 - SEPARABILITY 
 
In the event that any provision of this Agreement is at any time declared invalid by any court of 
competent jurisdiction, declared invalid by final Employment Relations Board (ERB) order, made 
illegal through enactment of federal or state laws, or through government regulations having the 
full force and effect of law, such action shall not invalidate the entire Agreement, it being the 
express intent of the parties hereto that all other provisions not invalidated shall remain in full 
force and effect. The invalidated provision shall be subject to renegotiation by the parties within 
a reasonable period of time from such request. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 8 - NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT 

The Employer agrees that during the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall not cause or 
permit any lockout of employees from their work. In the event an employee is unable to perform 
his/her assigned duties because equipment or facilities are not available due to a strike, work 
stoppage or slowdown by any other employees, such inability to provide work shall not be 
deemed a lockout. 

During the term of this Agreement, the Union shall neither cause nor counsel the members of the 
bargaining unit to strike, walk out, slowdown or commit other acts of work stoppage. 

Upon notification, confirmed in writing by the Employer to the Union, that certain bargaining unit 
employees covered by this Agreement are engaging in strike activity in violation of this Article, 
the Union shall, upon receipt of a mailing list, advise such striking employees in writing with a 
copy to the Employer to return to work immediately. Such notification by the Union shall not 
constitute an admission that it has caused or counseled such strike activity. The notification by 
the Union to employees covered by this Agreement shall be made at the request of the 
Employer.  

 
 

ARTICLE 9 - MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS 

Except as may be specifically modified by the terms of this Agreement, the Employer shall retain 
all rights of management in the direction of their work force. Rights of management shall include, 
but not be limited to, the right to: 

(a) direct employees; 

(b) hire, promote, transfer, assign and retain employees; 

(c) suspend, discharge or take other proper disciplinary action against employees; 

(d) reassign employees; 

(e) relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or other reasons; 

(f) schedule work; and, 

(g) determine methods, means and personnel by which operations are to be conducted.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 10 - UNION RIGHTS 

Section 1. Rights/Obligations 

(A) The Union and the Employer agree that there must be mutual respect for the rights and 
obligations of the Union and the Employer and the representatives of each. 

(B) Employees covered by this Agreement are at all times entitled to act through a union 
representative in taking any grievance action or following any alternate procedure under this 
Agreement. 

(C) Once a bargaining unit member files a grievance, the employee shall not be required to 
discuss the subject matter of the grievance without the presence of the union representative if 
the employee elects to be represented by the Union. 

Section 2. Union Organizer Visitations Union organizers, with approval from a responsible 
manager, shall be allowed reasonable contact with bargaining unit members on university/college 
facilities. The purpose of these visits will be to meet with Union Stewards, with employees or 
management regarding any actions or procedures under this Agreement, including but not 
limited to, employee grievances per Article 18 - Grievance and Arbitration Procedure. The union 
organizer will have the right to contact any represented employee in the workplace, as long as it 
does not interfere with the normal flow of work (e.g., lunch hour, break, before and after work 
shifts). The Union agrees to provide the Employer with a list of authorized representatives. 

Section 3. Building Use University/college facilities may be used for union activities according 
to current building use policies, so long as the facility is available and proper scheduling has been 
arranged. 

Section 4. Bulletin Boards The university/college shall allow the use of reasonable bulletin 
board space for communicating with employees. Union material shall not be displayed in the 
work area except in the designated bulletin board space. Union officers and stewards shall have 
the authorization to post messages to an electronic bulletin board or post office box system for 
internal union business where a university/college currently uses such a system, provided all of 
the following conditions are met: 

(A) The electronic bulletin board system shall not be used for interactive communications; 

(B) Usage shall comply with university/college policies applicable to all users such as protection 
of confidential information and security of equipment; 

(C) There shall be no additional cost of the university/college for use of the electronic bulletin 
board program; and 

(D) Authorized union-represented employees who post messages to the system shall do so on 
their own time. 

This provision no longer applies when a university changes or discontinues a computer system 
and thereby loses the ability to maintain an electronic bulletin board or similar system. 

Section 5. Union Steward Representation The Employer agrees that a union steward 
system exists for employee representation available to all employees covered by this Agreement 
and also agrees to respect that when the employee is acting in his/her role of steward, the 
relationship is different from that of supervisor and employee. 

Section 6. List of Union Representatives The Union shall provide the Employer with a list of 
the names of authorized union stewards and duty location, worksite representation responsibility, 
and a list of authorized staff representatives and shall update those lists as necessary. If 
problems arise regarding Union Steward authorized activities in representing employees, the 
Union agrees to discuss the problem with the Employer as the situation suggests. 

Section 7. The Employer agrees that there shall be no reprisal, coercion, intimidation or 
discrimination against any union steward for protected union activities. It is recognized that only 
certain protected activities are permitted during work hours. 

Section 8. New Employee Orientation Reasonable time shall be granted for a representative 
of the Union to make a presentation at the orientation of new employees on behalf of the Union 
for the purpose of identifying the organization’s representation status, organizational benefits, 
facilities, related information and distributing and collecting membership applications. This time is 
not to be used for discussion of labor/management disputes. If the union representative is an 
employee of the university/college, the employee shall be given time off with pay for the time 
required to make the presentation. The Employer will provide the Union reasonable notice of the 
place and time of meetings for the orientation of new employees. 

Section 9. Union stewards will be granted mutually agreed upon time off during regularly 
scheduled working hours to investigate and process grievances, and to represent bargaining unit 
employees in investigatory interviews as described in Article 17, Section 5 and Article 18, Section 
7 upon notice to their immediate supervisor. If the permitted activities would interfere with the 
work the Steward or employee is expected to perform, the immediate supervisor shall, within the 
next workday, arrange a mutually satisfactory time for the requested activity. 

Section 10. Release Time to Attend OSBHE Meetings One person designated by the Union 
will be released with pay to attend a meeting of the Oregon State Board of Higher Education. The 
designated representative shall work at the university/college where the Board meeting is 
scheduled or from the university/college in the closest physical geographic proximity to the 
meeting. 

Section 11. Union stewards will receive their regular rate of pay for time spent processing 
grievances and representing bargaining unit employees in investigatory interviews as described in 
Article 17, Section 5 and Article 18, Section 7 during their regularly scheduled hours of 
employment. However, except as provided in Article 18, Section 10 and Section 12, only one (1) 
union steward will be in pay status for any one (1) grievance except where a grievance involves 
employees in more than one (1) university/college. Supervisors may request that stewards 
maintain and submit a monthly activity report of work time spent investigating and processing 
grievances. 

Section 12. The Employer is not responsible for any compensation of employees or their 
representative for time spent processing grievances or distributing union material outside their 
regularly scheduled hours of employment. The Employer is not responsible for any travel or 
subsistence expenses incurred by a grievant or union steward in the processing of grievances. 

Section 13. Official Union delegates and members of the Union's Board of Directors shall be 
granted personal leave, accrued vacation leave, accrued compensatory time or leave of absence 
without pay at their request to attend the Union's annual General Council. 

The Union shall notify the Employer of the names of official delegates and board members who 
shall attend General Council, at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date of the General 
Council. In emergency situations where the Union is unable to provide thirty (30) days of 
advance notice, delegates and board members shall be granted leave with less than thirty (30) 
days notice unless, by granting such leave, the university/college will suffer undue hardship. 

Subject to the employee's work unit operating requirements, official Union Stewards shall be 
granted personal leave, accrued vacation leave, accrued compensatory time or leave of absence 
without pay at their request to attend the Union's annual Steward Conference. Such request will 
be submitted in writing at least ten (10) work days before the conference. 

The Union President and Executive Director shall, at their requests, be given release time from 
their positions for a period not to exceed the term of his/her office for the performance of Union 
duties directly related and central to the collective bargaining relationship. However, if the Union 
President and Executive Director are employed at the same institution, the institution is not 
obligated to approve both requests. If the Union President or Executive Director requests release 
time for less than his/her full regular schedule, such release time shall be subject to the 
university/college's approval based on the operating needs of the employee's work unit. The 
Union shall, within thirty (30) days of payment to the President or Executive Director, reimburse 
the Employer for payment of salary, benefits, paid leave time, pension and all other Employer 
related costs. The Union shall indemnify and the Union and its President and Executive Director 
hold the Employer harmless against any and all claims, damages, suits or other forms of liability 
which may arise out of any action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of 
complying with this Section. 

Section 14. 

(A) Upon timely request, the Employer shall make available at no cost to the Union the latest 
copy of any OPEU, SEIU Local 503 bargaining unit employee statistical and expenditure reports 
relative to employment and benefits currently produced by the Employer which do not require 
manual or machine editing to remove confidential data or non-OPEU bargaining unit employee 
data. Such request must be made in advance of the preparation of the reports. If new and 
appropriate employee statistical and expenditure reports are produced by the Employer, the 
Employer and the Union may mutually agree in advance to provide such reports at no cost. 

(B) Upon request, the Employer shall make available to the Union at cost any OPEU, SEIU Local 
503 bargaining unit employee statistical and expenditure data relative to employment and 
benefits which is possible to produce, although not normally produced, by the Employer. Data 
that are not normally produced, but possible to produce, include manual or machine editing of 
existing reports to remove confidential data or data on non-OPEU bargaining unit employees or 
data or reports that require new development. 

(C) Each university/college shall furnish monthly to the Union a list of new employees hired into 
positions represented by the Union. The list shall contain the name, classification, date of 
employment, transfer if known, and worksites of the new employees. 

Section 15. Dues Deduction 

(A) Upon receipt of a request in writing from an employee to do so, the Employer shall deduct 
Union dues from such employee's monthly salary or wages in the amount indicated in such 
request. These monthly dues deductions can include regular Union dues, special assessments, 
political dues check-off or voluntary political contributions. All applications for Union membership 
or dues cancellation shall be submitted by the employee to the Union. All applications for 
membership or dues cancellation which a university/college receives shall be promptly forwarded 
to the Union. Employee applications for Union membership or dues cancellation will be submitted 
by the Union to the university/college payroll offices seven (7) working days prior to the first of 
each month for payroll deduction. 

(B) Dues Deduction Register. An alphabetical listing of dues deducted for the previous month 
for Union members by the university/college shall be forwarded to the Union by the third 
workday for each month with the dues check. The listing shall be compiled and mailed by the 
Payroll Center and shall list the employee's name, (last, first, middle initial), Social Security 
number, amount deducted, base pay, classification number and representation code. 

(C) Dues Adjustment Summaries for Union Members. Summaries will be forwarded by the 
Payroll Center to the Union by the 20th of the month. The Dues Adjustment Summary will 
reconcile the previous month's remittance with the current month's remittance. The Dues 
Adjustment Summary will be an alphabetical listing and shall show the following: 

Name (last name first, full first name, middle initial) 

Formatted Social Security Number (000-00-0000) 

Prior month deduction 

Current month deduction 

Variance (difference between prior month deduction and current month) 

Reason for change in dues deduction amount (correction for previous month's error and 
explanation, salary increase, salary decrease, hourly, part-time, new member, cancellation, 
transfer to or from which university/college, layoff, retirement, termination, name change, leave 
of absence without pay, return from leave of absence without pay, end or beginning of season 
for seasonal employee). 

The Union recognizes that the above information may require hand editing and/or notations. 
Therefore, only repeated errors or omissions will be considered a violation of this section. 

(D) The Employer shall continue to deduct dues from employees as long as the employee 
remains on the same designated payroll, except when the employee requests cancellation of the 
dues deduction in writing. 

(E) Upon return from leave of absence or leave without pay, the Employer shall reinstate the 
payroll deduction of union dues from those workers who were having dues deducted immediately 
prior to taking leave. 

(F) If a Union member transfers to another university/college, the gaining university/college will 
designate the employee as a transfer on the new employee list referenced in Section 14(c) if the 
gaining university/college is aware the employee has transferred. Such employees will be carried 
over to the new university/college with no change or interruption in their membership status and 
will not be required to fill out a new membership application in order to maintain their status as 
Union members. 

(G) The Payroll Center shall provide monthly a magnetic tape file of all OPEU, SEIU Local 503 
represented employees and all OPEU, SEIU Local 503 members which contains the following 
information in its most updated form: 

Social Security Number 

Employee name 

University/College 

Position number 

Base pay 

Benefit pay (any non-working time for which the employee is paid) 

Gross pay 

Premium pay (overtime, shift differential, hazard duty pay, sea pay) 

Dues amount deducted 

Designation (member, fair share payer, non-dues payer) 

Representation code 

Month and year of the pay period 

(H) The Union agrees to pay the one-time reasonable cost associated with reprogramming to 
comply with formatting and additions for providing the information requested by the Union in 
Sections 15 and 16 as well as all reasonable ongoing administrative costs. It is understood that 
the Employer is not required to provide information not currently available in the data base but 
rather will prospectively gather such information. 

(I) Special Reports. Upon request, the Payroll Center will make available to the Union at cost, 
on a timely basis the following reports: 

(1) An alphabetical listing of the names of all OPEU, SEIU Local 503 represented employees 
within a university/college; 

(2) An alphabetical listing of all OPEU, SEIU Local 503 fair share payers by university/college. 

These reports shall contain: 

Employee name 

Social Security Number 

Classification with representation code 

Location code, if any 

City/county code 

(J) The parties agree that if the Employer adopts a biweekly pay plan this section of the 
Agreement will be opened to negotiate any issues including but not limited to readjusting reports 
and due dates. 

(K) The Union shall indemnify and hold the Employer harmless against claims, demands, suits or 
other forms of liability which may arise out of action taken by the Employer for the purpose of 
complying with the provisions of this Article. 

(L) The Employer will bill the Union for any additional costs associated with preparing 
information not already specifically contained in this Article. Upon request, the Employer will 
meet with the Union to discuss the Employer providing an additional standard magnetic tape 
format for information the Union requires. 

Section 16. Fair Share 

(A) All employees in the bargaining unit who are not members of the Union shall make fair share 
payments in-lieu-of-dues to the Union. 

(B) Fair share deductions shall be made in the first full month of employee service. 

(C) Bargaining unit members who exercise their right of non-association, only when based on a 
bona fide religious tenet or teaching of a church or religious body of which such employee is a 
member, shall pay an amount of money equivalent to regular monthly union dues to a non-
religious charity or to another charitable organization mutually agreed upon by the employee and 
the Union and such payment shall be remitted to that charity by the employee in accordance with 
ORS 243.666. At time of payment, notice of such payment shall simultaneously be sent to the 
Employer and the Union by the employee. 

(D) Fair Share Deduction Register An alphabetical listing of OPEU, SEIU Local 503 fair share 
deductions for the previous month by university/college shall be forwarded to the Union by the 
third workday of each month with the month's remittance. The listing shall be compiled and 
mailed by the Payroll Center and shall show employee's name (last, first, middle initial), Social 
Security Number, amount deducted, base pay, classification number and representation code. 

(E) Fair Share Adjustment Summaries for OPEU, SEIU Local 503 Members. Summaries 
will be forwarded by the university/college payroll office to the Union by the 20th of the month. 
The Fair Share Adjustment Summary will reconcile the previous month's remittance with the 

current month's remittance. The Fair Share Adjustment Summary will be an alphabetical listing 
and shall show the following: 

Name (last name first, full first name, middle initial) 

Formatted Social Security Number (000-00-0000) 

Prior month deduction 

Current month deduction 

Variance (difference between prior month deduction and current month) 

Reason for change in dues deduction amount (correction for previous month's error and 
explanation, salary increase, salary decrease, hourly, part-time, new member, cancellation, 
transfer to or from which university/college, layoff, retirement, termination, name change, leave 
of absence without pay, return from leave of absence without pay, end or beginning of season 
for seasonal employee.) 

The Union recognizes that the above information may require hand editing and/or notations. 
Therefore, only repeated errors or omissions will be considered a violation of this Section. 

(F) The Union shall indemnify and hold the Employer harmless against any and all claims, 
damages, suits or other forms of liability which may arise out of any action taken or not taken by 
the Employer for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this Article. 

Section 17. Other Deductions Voluntary payroll deductions made to the Union for employee 
benefits will be submitted at the same time as regular dues deductions. 
No later than the 15th of each month, the Union shall receive a benefit register for each benefit 
listing each employee, the amount deducted and the purpose of the deduction. 

Section 18. Union Rights/Stewards 

(A) The employees in each university/college shall be allowed not more than the following: 

PSU Ten (10) Stewards in Portland; one (1) at Salem Center so long as eight (8) or more 
bargaining unit employees are assigned to the Salem Center. 

UO Twenty (20) Stewards 

OSU Twenty-five (25) Stewards 

WOU Four (4) Stewards 

EOU Four (4) Stewards 

SOU Four (4) Stewards 

OIT Four (4) Stewards 

To the extent practicable, each steward will be selected from and represent equal numbers of 
employees who have a high degree of compatibility with respect to geographic area, classification 
or other employment interests. 

(B) The function of the steward is to represent employees, when requested by them, in 
grievance procedures outlined in Article 18, Grievance and Arbitration Procedure, and in 
disciplinary investigative interviews which an employee reasonably believes could result in 
disciplinary action under Article 17 - Discipline and Discharge. A steward may participate in 
additional matters when, at the discretion of the university/college Appointing Authority, such 
participation is deemed to be mutually beneficial.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 11 - EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP) 

Section 1. The Employer agrees to provide to the Union the statistical and program evaluation 
information provided to management concerning Employee Assistance Program(s). 

Section 2. No information gathered by an Employee Assistance Program may be used to 
discipline an employee. 

Section 3. Employees shall be entitled to use accrued sick leave for participation in an Employee 
Assistance Program. 

Section 4. Each university/college will offer training to local Union Stewards on the Employee 
Assistance Program available in their university/college, on university/college time, where an 
Employee Assistance Program is available.  

 
 
 
ARTICLE 12 - CHILD CARE 
 
The Employer may make available the use of facilities for child care centers. Use of facilities shall 
include a rental/lease agreement. Any child care facilities and/or vendors utilized under this 
Article must be certified in accordance with state laws and regulations. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 13 - CONTRACTING OUT 

Section 1. The Union recognizes that the Employer has the management right, during the term 
of this Agreement, to decide to contract out work performed by bargaining unit members. Such 
decisions shall, however, be made only after the affected university/college has conducted a 
formal feasibility study determining the potential costs and other benefits which would result 
from contracting out the work in question. The Employer agrees to notify the Union within one 
(1) week of its decision to conduct a formal feasibility study, indicating the job classifications and 
work areas affected. The Employer shall provide the Union with no less than thirty (30) days 

notice that it intends to issue bids to contract out bargaining unit work where the decision would 
result in displacement of bargaining unit members. During this thirty (30) day period, the 
Employer shall not release any bids and the Union shall have the opportunity to submit an 
alternate proposal. The notification by the Employer to the Union of the results of the feasibility 
study will include all pertinent information upon which the Employer based its decision to contract 
out the work including, but not limited to, the total cost savings the Employer anticipates. 

Nothing in this Article shall prevent the Employer from continually analyzing its operation for the 
purpose of identifying cost saving opportunities. 

Section 2. If the Union's proposal would result in providing quality and savings equal to or 
greater than that identified in the management plan, the parties will agree in writing to 
implement the Union proposal. 

Section 3. Should any full-time bargaining unit member become displaced as a result of 
contracting out, the Employer and the Union shall meet to discuss the effect on bargaining unit 
members. The Employer's obligation to discuss the effect of such contracting does not obligate it 
to secure the agreement of the Union or to exhaust the dispute resolution procedure of ORS 
243.712, 243.722 or 243.742, concerning the decision or the impact. 

"Displaced" as used in this Article means when the work an employee is performing is contracted 
to another entity outside the Oregon University System and the employee is removed from 
his/her job. 

Section 4. Once a university/college makes a decision to contract out, it will either: 

(A) Require the contractor to hire employees displaced by the contract at the same rate of pay 
for a minimum of six (6) months subject only to "just cause" terminations. In this instance, the 
OUS will continue to provide each such employee with six (6) months of health and dental 
insurance coverage through the Public Employees' Benefits Board, if continuation of coverage 
under the Public Employees' Benefits Board is allowed by law and pertinent rules of eligibility; or 

(B) Place employees displaced by a contract elsewhere in the Oregon University System in the 
following order of priority: within the department, within the university/college, or within OUS 
generally. Salaries of employees placed in lower classifications will be red-circled. To the extent 
this Article conflicts with Article 33 - Filling of Vacancies, this Article shall prevail. 

(C) An employee may exercise his/her layoff rights pursuant to Article 51 - Layoff if the 
employee finds option (A) or (B), as selected by the Employer, is unsatisfactory. 

The employee must select layoff within five (5) calendar days pursuant to notification of (A) or 
(B) above.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 14 - NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURES 

Section 1. Negotiations shall commence pursuant to Article 4 of this Agreement. 

Section 2. The Employer agrees to grant leave with pay for one employee per university/college 
to represent the Union for actual negotiating table time including caucuses, negotiation work 
sessions and a reasonable number of membership meetings relating to negotiations. In addition, 
the Employer agrees to grant leave with pay for a bargaining team chairperson designated by the 
Union. The Union agrees, as a prior condition to the release of the employee from work, to notify 
the Employer in writing of the member designated for negotiations. The Employer is not 
responsible for travel, per diem, overtime or other benefits beyond that which the employee 
would have received had the employee not attended bargaining sessions. Subject in each case to 
prior approval by the university/college, the Employer further agrees to grant leave without pay 
to additional employees determined necessary by the Union to attend negotiating sessions. 
Should it become necessary for the Employer to replace an employee scheduled for swing or 
graveyard shift so as to permit that employee to participate in collective bargaining negotiations, 
the Union agrees alternatively as follows: 

(A) Six (6) workdays notice shall be given by the Union to the Employer so as to allow the 
Employer to avoid payment of penalty pay for the schedule change of the replacement employee; 
or 

(B) If the Union does not give notice prescribed in (A) above, the Union shall reimburse the 
Employer for the penalty pay paid to the replacing employee. 

Section 3. Ratification It is understood that all tentative agreements at the table are subject 
to ratification by both parties.  

 
 
ARTICLE 15 - PARKING 
 
The Employer agrees to advise the Union of any proposed change in parking rates at OUS owned 
or operated facilities as soon as the Employer has knowledge of an impending change. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 16 - PERSONNEL RECORDS 

Section 1. The Official Personnel File 

(A) Each university/college shall maintain one (1) official personnel file for each employee, 
located at the primary administrative Human Resource Office for the university/college. 

Where the personnel records are maintained on microfiche/microfilm, the personnel file will 
include both microfiche/microfilm and any material not yet copied. 

Upon reasonable notice, an employee may inspect the records, excluding any confidential reports 
from previous Employers, in his/her official university/college personnel file; provided that, if the 
official personnel file is kept at a separate facility, the employee shall, at the university/college’s 
discretion, either be allowed to go where the file is kept or the file will be brought to the 
employee for review within five (5) days of his/her request. With the employee's written 
authorization, his/her Union Steward may inspect the employee's official personnel file, consistent 

with the time requirements provided herein. No grievance material shall be kept in an employee's 
official personnel file. 

(B) No information reflecting critically upon an employee except notices of discharge shall be 
placed in the employee's official personnel file that does not bear the signature of the employee. 
The employee shall be required to sign material to be placed in his/her official personnel file 
provided the following disclaimer is attached: "Employee's signature confirms only that the 
supervisor has discussed and given a copy of the material to the employee. The employee's 
signature does not indicate agreement or disagreement with the contents of this material." 

If an employee is not available within five (5) working days or refuses to sign the material, the 
university/college may place the material in the file provided a statement has been signed by two 
(2) management representatives and a copy of the document was mailed certified to the 
employee at his/her address of record. 

(C) Employees shall be entitled to prepare a written explanation or opinion regarding any critical 
material placed in his/her official personnel file. The employee's explanation or opinion shall be 
attached to the critical material and shall be included as part of the employee's official personnel 
record so long as the critical materials remain in the file. Where the personnel records are 
maintained on microfiche/microfilm, the explanation or opinion will be placed next to or in closest 
possible proximity to the critical material. 

(D) An employee may include in his/her official personnel file a reasonable amount of relevant 
material such as letters of commendation, licenses, certificates, college course credits and other 
material which relates creditably on the employee. This material shall be retained for a minimum 
of three (3) years except that licenses, certificates or college credit information may be retained 
so long as they remain valid and relevant to the employee's work. 

(E) Material reflecting caution, consultation, warning, admonishment and reprimand shall be 
retained for a maximum of three (3) years. Such material may however be removed after twenty-
four (24) months, provided there has been no recurrence of the problem or a related problem in 
that time. Earlier removal will be permitted when requested by an employee and if approved by 
the university/college Appointing Authority. 

Material relating to disciplinary action recommended, but not taken or disciplinary action which 
has been overturned and ordered removed from the official personnel file(s) on final appeal, shall 
be removed. 

Incorrect material will be removed, upon request, from an employee's personnel file. (See Article 
57 - Position Descriptions and Performance Evaluation.) 

Section 2. Supervisory Files 

(A) Supervisors may keep records and/or anecdotal notes on subordinate employees. Employees 
shall be notified if a supervisory file is being kept. 

(B) The employee may inspect the supervisory file upon reasonable notice to the supervisor. 
Upon employee request, a copy of the records and anecdotal notes within the file will be 
provided. 

(C) At the employee’s request, rebuttal documents will be placed in the supervisory file. 

(D) If the employee severs his/her employment with the university/college, the supervisory file 
will be expunged. If the employee promotes, transfers or demotes within the university/college, 
the supervisory file will be retained in the former department for a period of up to one (1) year 
from the effective date of such action, at which time the file will be expunged.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 17 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE 

Section 1.  

The principles of progressive discipline shall be used when appropriate. Discipline shall include, 
but not be limited to: written reprimands; denial of an annual performance pay increase; 
reduction in pay; demotion; suspension and dismissal. Discipline shall be imposed only for just 
cause. 

The parties agree that the procedures described in Articles 17, 18 and 19 shall be the only 
contractual procedure for resolving disputes concerning Discipline and Discharge. 

Section 2. 

(A) Reduction, Suspension and Demotion Appeals. An employee reduced in pay, demoted 
or suspended without pay shall receive written notice of the discipline with the specific charges 
and facts supporting the discipline at the time disciplinary action is taken. In cases where an 
employee has been suspended with pay pending an investigation, written notice of the 
allegations as they are or may be known at the time, must be provided to the employee within 
seven (7) calendar days of the effective date of the action; however, such actions become 
disciplinary when they result in further disciplinary action or when they extend beyond fourteen 
(14) calendar days or when they extend beyond twenty-one (21) calendar days upon written 
notice by the university/college of reasonable need for such extension (e.g., inability to complete 
an investigation). Suspensions with pay will not be recorded in employee personnel files nor in 
any manner used against an employee if no disciplinary action is subsequently taken. 

(B) The university/college will make a good faith effort to have the following statement appear 
on all dismissals and disciplinary notices covered in Section 2(a) above: 

"If you choose to contest this action you have a right to be represented by the 
Oregon Public Employees Union, SEIU Local 503 and you must file an appeal 
within twenty (20) calendar days from the effective date of this action in 
accordance with Article 17."  

Failure to include this notice will not void the disciplinary action. 

(C) Appeals of Written Reprimands, Denial of a Performance Pay Increase, and any 
Other Form of Discipline Other than Dismissal, Reduction, Suspension and Demotion 
Appeals. Appeal of a written reprimand, denial of an annual eligibility date performance pay 
increase, and any other form of discipline other than dismissal, reduction, suspensions and 
demotions shall be filed in accordance with Article 18-Grievance and Arbitration Procedure. 

Section 3. 

A written predismissal notice shall be given to a regular status employee who is being considered 
for dismissal. Such notice shall include the then known complaints, facts and charges, and a 
statement that the employee may be dismissed. The employee shall be afforded an opportunity 
to refute such charges or present mitigating circumstances to the university/college Appointing 
Authority at a time and date set forth in the notice, which date shall not be less than seven (7) 
calendar days from the date the notice is received or, at the option of the employee, by written 
response by that date. The employee shall be permitted to have an official representative 
present. At the discretion of the university/college Appointing Authority, the employee may be 
suspended with or without pay or be allowed to continue to work as specified in the predismissal 
notice. Should an employee be suspended without pay, the employee will first be afforded notice 
and the right to present mitigating circumstances to the university/college Appointing Authority 
or designee. 

Section 4. 

Employees in initial trial service with the university/college shall have no right to appeal removals 
from service under this Article. Employees in trial service as a result of promotion who are 
returned to their former classification shall have no right of appeal under this Article for such 
removal. However, an employee in trial service as a result of promotion who is dismissed from 
service may have his/her dismissal appealed by the Union under this Article. 

Section 5.  

Upon request, an employee shall have the right to Union representation during an investigatory 
interview that an employee reasonably believes will result in disciplinary action. The employee 
will have the opportunity to consult with a local Union Steward or Union Organizer before the 
interview, but such consultation shall not cause an undue delay.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 18 - GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE 

Section 1. Grievances are defined as acts, omissions, applications or interpretations alleged to 
be violations of the terms or conditions of this Agreement. 

Grievances shall be filed within twenty (20) calendar days of the date the grievant or the Union 
knows or by reasonable diligence should have known of the alleged grievance. 

Grievances shall be reduced to writing, stating the specific Article(s) alleged to have been 
violated and clear explanation of the alleged violation, sufficient to allow processing of the 
grievance. Grievances shall be filed at all steps of this procedure on the form identified as the 
Official Statement of Grievance Form. Once filed, the Union shall not expand upon the original 
elements and substance of the written grievance. 

All grievances shall be processed in accordance with this Article and it shall be the sole and 
exclusive method of resolving grievances. However, grievances arising under Article 19 - No 

Discrimination and Article 56-Reclassification Upward/Downward shall be subject to the 
alternative procedures specifically outlined in their respective Articles. 

Section 2. Time limits specified in this and the above-referenced Articles shall be strictly 
observed, unless either party requests a specific extension of time, which if agreed to, must be 
stipulated in writing and shall become part of the grievance record. "Filed" for purposes of Step 1 
and 2 grievances shall mean postmarked (dated by meter or U.S. Post Office), fax received by 
close of the business day or actual receipt. "Filed" for purposes of Steps 3 and 4 shall mean 
actual receipt. 

If at any step of the grievance procedure, the Employer fails to issue a response within the 
specified time limits, the grievance shall automatically advance to the next step of the grievance 
procedure unless withdrawn by the grievant or the Union. If the grievant or Union fails to meet 
the specified time limits, the grievance will be considered withdrawn and it cannot be 
resubmitted. 

Grievance steps referred to in this Article may be waived by mutual agreement in writing. Such 
written agreements shall become part of the grievance file. 

Section 3. When required by the Employer to investigate the grievance, any time spent by 
employee(s) to attend meetings during regular working hours, shall be considered as work time. 

Section 4. Group Grievances. Where there are group grievances in universities/colleges 
involving two (2) or more supervisors, such grievances shall be filed and processed in accordance 
with Step 2 of the grievance procedure. When a grievance involves employees in more than one 
(1) university/college, such grievance shall be filed and processed in accordance with Step 3 of 
this Article. The grievance shall specifically enumerate, by name, the affected employees, when 
known. Otherwise, the affected employees will be generically described in the grievance. 

Section 5. Grievances shall be processed as follows: 

TYPE OF CASE 

PLACE TO FILE 

FILING DATE 

PLACE TO APPEAL 

Grievances not listed 
below 

Step1 Immediate 
Supervisor 

20 Calendar Days 

Step 2 University/ 
College President or 
designee 

20 Calendar Days 

Reduction, Suspension, 
Demotion, Reclass 
Downward, Family 
Medical Leave Act, 
Group grievances 
involving multiple 
supervisors in one 
university 

Step 2 (University/ 
College President or 
designee), then Step 3 
(OUS HR), then 
arbitration 

Step 3 (OUS HR), then 
arbitration 

Discrimination 
grievances involving 
sexual orientation 

Step 2 University/ 
College President or 
designee 

20 Calendar Days 

Step 3 (OUS HR), then 
arbitration 

Discrimination 
grievances alleging 
sexual harassment 

All other discrimination 
grievances 

Step 2 University/ 
College President or 
designee 

Step 2 University/ 
College President or 
designee 

20 Calendar Days 

Step 3 (OUS HR), then 
arbitration or EEOC 
and/or BOLI 

20 Calendar Days 

EEOC and/or BOLI 

Dismissal, Group 
grievances of multiple 
universities, Reclass 
Upward 

Step 3 OUS HR 

20 Calendar Days 

Arbitration 

Step 1. The grievant(s), with or without Union representation, shall file the grievance except as 
otherwise noted to his/her immediate excluded supervisor or if the immediate excluded 
supervisor does not have the authority to resolve the grievance, to the second level supervisor, 
i.e, the Dean, Director, Manager, or Superintendent responsible for the unit in which the grievant 
works. The supervisor shall respond in writing to the grievant(s) within twenty (20) calendar days 
from the receipt of the grievance. In all cases, the grievant and his/her immediate excluded 
supervisor will attempt to meet within the twenty (20) day filing period in an attempt to resolve 
the grievance at the lowest possible level of management. Failure to meet will not invalidate the 
grievance. 

The parties agree that all Step 1 grievance settlements are non-precedential and shall not be 
cited by either party or their agents or members in any arbitration or fact finding proceedings 
now or in the future. Step 1 grievance settlements shall be reduced to writing and signed by the 
grievant and first line supervisor. 

The settlement shall include the statement: 

"Step 1 grievance settlements are non-precedential and may not 
be cited by either party or their agents or members in any 
arbitration or fact finding proceedings now or in the future."  

Actions taken pursuant to Step 1 settlement agreements shall not be deemed to establish or 
change practices under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, including but not limited to Article 
5, or ORS Chapter 243 and shall not give rise to any bargaining or other consequential 
obligations. 

Step 2. When the response at Step 1 does not resolve the grievance, the grievance must be filed 
by the Union within twenty (20) calendar days after the Step 1 response is due or received, 
whichever occurs first. The appeal shall be filed in writing to the university/college President or 
designee, who shall respond in writing within twenty (20) calendar days after receipt of the Step 
2 appeal. 

Step 3. Failing to settle the grievance in accordance with Step 2, the appeal, if pursued, must be 
filed by the Union and received by the OUS Human Resources Division within twenty (20) 
calendar days after the Step 2 response is due or received, whichever occurs first. The OUS 
Human Resources Division shall respond in writing within twenty (20) calendar days from receipt 
of the Step 3 appeal. At this step the parties agree that a face-to-face meeting (or the equivalent 
by phone) will occur between the Union and the OUS Human Resources Division. 

Pursuant to Article 19, grievances involving discrimination based on sexual orientation proceed to 
Step 3, grievances alleging discrimination based on sexual harassment proceed to Step 3 with the 
same time lines as stated in this section, or Bureau of Labor and Industries and/or Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission. All other discrimination grievances must be appealed to 
BOLI and/or EEOC. 

Step 4. Grievances which are not satisfactorily resolved at Step 3 may be appealed to 
arbitration. If the Union intends to appeal to arbitration, the appeal must be received by the OUS 
Human Resource Division within forty five (45) calendar days after the Step 3 response was due 
or received. 

DISMISSAL GRIEVANCES: Dismissal grievances for regular status employees shall be filed 
directly at the OUS Human Resources Division, within twenty (20) calendar days of the effective 
date of the dismissal. The grievance must be in writing and state the specific reasons for the 
grievance. If the grievance is not resolved by the OUS Human Resources Division, the Union shall 
(if it chooses to appeal) file for arbitration within twenty (20) calendar days after the response 
from the OUS Human Resources Division was due or received, whichever occurs first. The Union 
may elect to arbitrate dismissal grievances under Section 6 or Section 11 of this Article, but not 
both. 

REDUCTION, SUSPENSION, DEMOTION OR DISCRIMINATION GRIEVANCES: 
Reduction, suspension with or without pay, demotion, or discrimination grievances shall be filed 
directly with the university/college President or designee (Step 2 of this Article) within twenty 
(20) calendar days from the effective date of the action. The university/college President or 
designee shall respond in writing in accordance with the time limits of this Article. 

FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT GRIEVANCES: Any grievances alleging a violation of the 
Family Medical Leave Act will be submitted in writing within twenty (20) calendar days of the 
date the grievant or the Union knows or by reasonable diligence should have known of the 
alleged grievance, directly to the University/College President or designee as defined or used in 
Article 18, Section 5. A copy of the grievance shall be sent concurrently to the OUS Human 
Resource Division. The university/college President or designee shall respond within twenty (20) 
calendar days after receipt of the grievance. All unresolved FMLA grievances may be submitted 
by the Union or the grievant to the U. S. Department of Labor if not already so filed. Nothing in 
this Article shall preclude an employee from filing a complaint with the Department of Labor at 
any time. 

Section 6 - Arbitration Selection and Authority. 

(A) Within sixty five (65) calendar days of OUS's response at Step 3, the Union shall notify the 
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) of the dispute and request a list of arbitrators, 
which shall be specifically limited to Geographic Area 29. Selection of arbitrators and dates shall 
be in accordance with the rules of FMCS. The arbitration will be handled in accordance with the 
rules of FMCS. In the event the Union fails to notify FMCS within sixty five (65) calendar days, 
the grievance shall be considered withdrawn and it cannot be resubmitted. 

(B) The arbitrator shall have the authority to hear and rule on all issues which arise over 
substantive or procedural arbitrability. Such issues, if raised, must be heard prior to hearing the 
merits of any appeal to arbitration. Upon motion by either party to bifurcate the hearing on 
procedural or substantive arbitrability issues, the arbitrator will make the determination on 
bifurcation. Should the arbitrator choose to take the arbitrability issue under advisement and 

proceed with the merits, he/she shall issue a written decision on the arbitrability issue only, 
should the issue be found to be nonarbitrable. 

(C) The Parties agree that the decision or award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on 
each of the parties. The arbitrator shall issue his/her decision or award within thirty (30) calendar 
days of the closing of the hearing record. The arbitrator shall have no authority to rule contrary 
to, to amend, add to, subtract from, change or eliminate any of the terms of this Agreement. 

(D) The Parties shall split FMCS costs and the arbitrator's charges equally. All other expenses 
shall be borne exclusively by the party requiring the service or item for which payment is to be 
made. 

Section 7. Upon request, an employee shall have the right to Union representation during an 
investigatory interview that an employee reasonably believes will result in disciplinary action. The 
employee will have the opportunity to consult with a local Union Steward or Union Organizer 
before the interview, but such consultation shall not cause an undue delay. 

Section 8. A grievant shall be granted leave with pay for appearance before the Employment 
Relations Board or arbitration, including the time required going and returning to his/her 
headquarters. 

Section 9. No reprisals shall be taken against any employee for exercise of his/her rights under 
the provisions of this Article. 

Section 10 - Grievance Committees A committee of the Union Stewards for each 
university/college as listed below shall be appointed by the Union to act as a grievance 
committee. The committee shall discuss employee grievances for the purpose of achieving 
resolutions at the lowest possible level of the grievance procedure. The Union Stewards 
appointed to this committee shall be allowed one (1) hour on duty per month for committee 
meetings, without loss of pay and benefits provided time off is prescheduled with the supervisor 
and activity is reported to the supervisor pursuant to Article 10, Section 11. The 
university/college shall suffer no overtime obligation as a result of this Article. The employees in 
each university/college shall be allowed not more than the following: 

Oregon State University Five (5) Union Stewards. 

University of Oregon Three (3) Union Stewards. 

Portland State University Three (3) Union Stewards. 

Western Oregon University Two (2) Union Stewards. 

Oregon Institute of Technology Two (2) Union Stewards. 

Eastern Oregon University Two (2) Union Stewards. 

Southern Oregon University Two (2) Union Stewards. 

Section 11 - Expedited Arbitration 

(A) If the Union elects to process a dismissal action under this section, rather than under Section 
6, it shall, within twenty (20) calendar days following the date the response of the Oregon 
University System was due or received, whichever occurs first, under Section 5, notify the OUS 
Human Resources Division of its intent to proceed to expedited arbitration under this section. 

(B) Within sixty (60) calendar days of the signing of this Agreement the parties shall agree on a 
list of five arbitrators who have agreed in advance to be available on short notice to hear such 
cases. Arbitrators shall be used on a rotational basis. An arbitrator unable to hear an expedited 
arbitration case within thirty (30) calendar days of his/her selection shall be deemed unavailable 
and the next arbitrator in turn will be selected. If no arbitrators on the list are available to hear 
the case within thirty (30) calendar days, the earliest available arbitrator shall be used. 

If the Union fails to initiate the above arbitration selection process within twenty (20) calendar 
days following the date of notice to OUS Human Resources Division under Section 11 (a), the 
grievance shall be considered withdrawn and it cannot be resubmitted. 

(C) The hearing shall be conducted as soon as practicable. Except by mutual agreement, there 
shall be no transcripts or briefs. The arbitrator shall issue a decision as soon as possible, but no 
later than twenty-one (21) calendar days after the hearing has been closed. The 21-day 
requirement may only be waived by mutual agreement of the parties. 

Section 12 - Monthly Meetings. The Chief Steward or steward designated by the Union and 
the Employee Relations Manager or Human Resources Director at each university/college shall 
schedule a monthly meeting to review pending grievances and to make good faith efforts to 
resolve such grievances. The Chief Steward or steward designated by the Union and the 
Employee Relations Manager or Human Resources Director shall mutually agree on the 
participation of other Union and Employer representatives at these meetings on a case-by-case 
basis. Such meetings shall take place during regular working hours. Bargaining unit employees 
authorized to attend these meetings shall be considered to be on work time.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 19 - NO DISCRIMINATION 

Section 1. It is the policy of the Employer and the Union to continue their policies not to engage 
in unlawful discrimination against any employee because of race, color, marital status, religion, 
sex, national origin, age, mental or physical handicap. Neither will the Employer discriminate 
based on sexual orientation. 

Section 2. Sexual harassment is considered a form of sex discrimination. No employee shall be 
subjected to sexual harassment by the Employer, Union or other bargaining unit members. 
Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other deliberate or repeated 
unsolicited verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitutes sexual harassment when: 

(A) submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an 
individual's employment; 

(B) submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for 
employment decisions affecting such individual; or 

(C) such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work 
performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment. 

Section 3. Discipline and Discharge appeals which allege the action was taken for sexual 
harassment or sexual orientation reasons shall follow the appeal time frames in Article 17. 

Any other grievance alleging any form of discrimination as listed in Section 1 will be submitted in 
writing within twenty (20) calendar days of the date the grievant or the Union knows or by 
reasonable diligence should have known of the alleged grievance, directly to the 
university/college President or designee as defined or used in Article 18, Section 5. The 
university/college President or designee shall respond within twenty (20) calendar days after 
receipt of the grievance. If the grievance is still not resolved at this level, grievances alleging 
discrimination based on sexual harassment or sexual orientation shall be submitted by the Union 
to the OUS Employee Relations Manager for resolution within twenty (20) calendar days after 
receipt of the university/college President’s or designee's response. The OUS response shall be 
due twenty (20) calendar days after receipt of the grievance. 

Section 4. All other unresolved discrimination grievances may be submitted by the Union or the 
grievant to the Bureau of Labor and Industries or the EEOC for resolution, if not already so filed. 
In the case of sexual harassment and sexual orientation grievances, the Union may proceed to 
arbitration per Section 5. Nothing in this Article shall preclude an employee from filing a charge 
of discrimination with the Bureau of Labor and Industries or the EEOC at any time. It is agreed, 
however, that there will be no concerted effort on the part of the Employer to discourage 
arbitration or the Union to encourage the use of multiple sources of complaint resolution. 

Section 5 

(A) Grievances alleging discrimination because of sexual harassment or sexual orientation may 
be arbitrated provided such Union request is made within twenty (20) calendar days from the 
date the OUS response was due or received, whichever occurs first. In addition to back pay and 
fringe benefits, relief sought through arbitration may include transfer, promotion, and cease and 
desist orders. Arbitration requests shall proceed under Article 18, Section 6. 

(B) The right to arbitrate grievances alleging discrimination based on sexual orientation shall 
expire on the effective date of a change in federal or state law, Bureau of Labor and Industries or 
EEOC regulations or court decision that such discrimination is covered by law and a statutory 
appeal procedure exists. 

Section 6. Where the Union alleges unlawful discrimination as a basis of any grievance, in whole 
or in part, the Union shall make a declaration of its choice to arbitrate the issue by declaring to 
OUS following its response at Step 3 of the grievance procedure. 

Where the Union chooses to proceed to arbitration, allegations of unlawful discrimination under 
Article 19 shall be removed as the claim of violation for the arbitration. 

NOTE: Time lines for filing tort claims notice or legal actions are not suspended by filing a 
grievance under this Article. This note is for information only and is not part of the contract.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 20 - DIFFERENTIAL PAY 

Section 1. Geographic Area Pay 

(A) Classifications C4115, C4116, C4209, C4221, C4225, C4207, C4205, C4213, C4211, C4223, 
C4215: 

Prevailing basic rates in specific geographical areas for employment of limited duration less than 
one hundred twenty (120) days will be approved. Employees paid at such rates will not be 
eligible for vacation, sick leave or holiday benefits. Such rates will be paid only for construction 
work. 

(B) A differential, not to exceed twenty-five percent (25%) over the base rate, may be paid a 
permanent, nonresident classified employee upon approval of the university/college Appointing 
Authority. An employee would not be entitled to a per diem expense allowance in lieu of the 
differential. 

(C) C2309, C2312 - Education Project Aide, Education Program Asst: Prevailing local rates for 
foreign nationals employed outside the United States. 

Section 2. Special Duty Pay. 

(A) High Work Differential: When an employee is required to perform work more than twenty 
(20) feet directly above the ground or water and use of safety ropes, scaffolds, boatswain chairs 
or other similar safety devices are required for support, the employee shall receive a high work 
differential. Rate: One dollar ($1.00) per hour. 

(B) Application: C6222, C6224 - Staff Nurse, Registered Nurse 1. 

Definition: Charge differential shall be defined as a temporary hourly differential for an eight (8) 
hour shift for a Staff Nurse or Registered Nurse 1 who has been assigned charge duties. 

Rate: Staff Nurses and Registered Nurses who are assigned and are performing charge duties will 
receive an additional thirty-three cents ($0.33) per hour. When this special duty pay condition 
occurs on a holiday worked or in an overtime period worked, this additional special duty premium 
pay shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). 

(C) Application: C6135 - Licensed Practical Nurse. 

Eligibility: Charge differential shall be defined as a temporary hourly differential for an eight (8) 
hour shift for a Licensed Practical Nurse who has been assigned charge duties by the Employer. 

Rate: Licensed Practical Nurses who are assigned and are performing charge duties shall receive 
an additional five percent (5%) above their current rate of pay for all hours worked during the 
assignment. When this special duty pay condition occurs on a holiday worked or in an overtime 
period worked, this additional special duty premium pay shall be paid at the rate of time and 
one-half (1-1/2). 

(D) Diving Differential: 

Eligibility: Employees whose work assignment requires the use of self-contained underwater 
breathing apparatus or other sustained underwater diving equipment and who passes current 
certification for the use of such equipment will receive a differential of five dollars ($5.00) per 
hour or any fraction thereof, for actual diving time. 

(E) Hazardous Materials Differential: 

Employees shall be paid a differential of one dollar ($1.00) per hour for all time spent performing 
work with hazardous materials which requires a certificate or a license and shall be paid a 
differential of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour for all time spent performing work with 
hazardous materials which requires a supervisory certificate or license. This differential will apply 
only when Haz Mat duties are not included in the employee's classification specifications. 

Section 3. Special Qualifications Pay. 

(A) Bilingual: A differential of two and one-half percent (2.5%) over base rate will be paid to 
employees in positions which specifically require and have been recruited for bilingual skills (i.e., 
translation to and from English to another foreign language or the use of sign language) as a 
condition of employment. The interpretation and translation skills must be contained in an 
employee's individual position's position description. 

(B) Supervisory Electrician Differential: 

Eligibility: Employees whose work assignment requires that they be licensed as a supervisory 
electrician by the university/college. 

Rate: A differential of 5% over the base rate shall be paid. 

(C) Nuclear Reactor License Differential: 

Eligibility: Employees who are required to possess a nuclear reactor operator’s license by the 
Employer where such license is not a requirement of the classification. 

Rate: A differential of 5% over the base rate shall be paid. 

(D) Special Campus Security Officer Differential: 

Eligibility: Employees who are designated as special campus security officers as per ORS 352.385. 

Rate: A differential of 10% over the base rate shall be paid. 

Section 4. Shift Differential. 

(A) Eligibility: Shift Differential shall apply to all employees except temporary appointments. In 
order to qualify for the shift differential, an employee must be in a job classification which is 
allocated to Salary Range 22 or below. All employees shall be paid a differential as outlined in 
Paragraphs (B) and (C) below for each hour or major portion thereof (thirty minutes (30) or 
more), worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. and for each hour or major portion thereof 
worked on Saturday or Sunday. 

(B) All other personnel excluding those identified in Paragraph (C) will receive a differential of 
fifty cents ($.50) per hour 

(C) Registered Nurses, Nurse Practitioners, and Licensed Practical Nurses will receive a shift 
differential of one dollar and thirty-five cents ($1.35) per hour. 

Section 5. Leadwork Differential. 

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (G) of this section, leadwork differential shall be defined as 
a differential for employees who have been formally assigned by their supervisor in writing, 
"leadwork" duties over two (2) or more bargaining unit employees in an equivalent or lower 
salary range for ten (10) consecutive work days or longer. Leadwork is where, on a recurring 
daily basis, the employee has been directed to perform substantially all of the following 
functions: orient new employees, if appropriate; assign and reassign tasks to accomplish 
prescribed work efficiently; give direction to workers concerning work procedures; transmit 
established standards of performance to workers; review work of employees for conformance of 
standards; and provide informal assessment of workers’ performance to the supervisor. 

(B) The differential shall be five percent (5%) beginning from the first day the duties were 
formally assigned in writing for the full period of the assignment. 

(C) Leadwork differential shall not be computed at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for the 
time worked in an overtime or holiday work situation, or to effect a "pyramiding" of work out-of-
classification payments. However, leadwork differential shall be included in calculation of the 
overtime rate of pay. 

(D) Leadwork differential shall not apply for voluntary training and development purposes which 
are mutually agreed to in writing between the supervisor and the employee. 

(E) Leadwork differential shall not apply to employees in those classifications which normally 
perform oversight or leadwork duties. 

(F) If an employee believes that he/she is performing the duties that meet the criteria in Section 
6(A) of a leadworker, but the duties have not been formally assigned in writing, the employee 
may notify the President or designee in writing. The university/college will review the duties 
within fifteen (15) calendar days of the notification. If the university/college determines that 
leadwork duties were in fact assigned and are appropriate, the leadwork differential will be 
effective beginning with the day the employee notified the President or designee of the issue. 

If the university/college determines that the leadwork duties were in fact assigned but should not 
be continued, the university/college may remove the duties during the fifteen (15) day review 
period with no penalty. 

If the university/college concludes that the duties are not leadwork, the university/college shall 
notify the employee in writing within fifteen (15) calendar days from receipt of the employee’s 
notification to the President or designee. 

(G) Consistent with all provisions of Paragraph (A) through (F) of this Section a five percent 
(5%) leadwork differential shall be paid to employees who are employed in the classification of 
Office Assistant 1-2; Food Service Worker 1-2; Custodian; or Laborer 1; AND are assigned in 
writing by their supervisor to lead the work of four (4) or more student employees for ten (10) 

consecutive calendar days or longer; HOWEVER, employees so assigned will only be eligible for 
this differential for the work weeks in which the collective hours of work performed by the 
assigned student employees equals forty (40) hours or more. 

Section 6. Work Out-of-Classification 

(A) When an employee is assigned for a limited period to perform the duties of a position at a 
higher level classification for more than ten (10) consecutive calendar days, the employee shall 
be paid at what would be the next higher salary step or the first step of the higher salary range, 
whichever is greater. 

When assignments are made to work out-of-classification for more than ten (10) consecutive 
calendar days, the employee shall be compensated for all hours worked beginning from the first 
day of the assignment for the full period of the assignment. 

(B) An employee performing duties out-of-classification for training or developmental purposes 
shall be informed in writing of the purpose and length of the assignment during which there shall 
be no extra pay for the work. A copy of the notice shall be placed in the employee’s file. 

(C) An employee who is underfilling a position shall be informed in writing that he/she is an 
underfill, the reasons for the underfill, and the requirements necessary for the employee to 
qualify for reclassification to the allocated level. Upon gaining regular status and meeting the 
requirement for the allocated level of the position, the employee shall be reclassified. 

(D) Assignments of work out-of-classification shall not be made in a manner which will subvert 
or circumvent the administration of this Section.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 21 - SALARY 

Section 1 - Salary Increase. For purposes of this Agreement, the parties agree that for the 1999-2001 
biennium, salary increases for bargaining unit employees shall be at the following levels: 

•  2% effective October 1, 1999  
•  $38.00 added to each step of salary schedule effective December 1, 1999. Red circled employees 

will participate in this increase.  
•  2.5% effective January 1, 2001  

Section 2 - PERS. The Employer shall continue to pay the six percent (6%) PERS pickup for PERS-eligible 
bargaining unit members through the term of this Agreement. 
Section 3 - Eighth Step. In accordance with the parties' 1996-1999 collective bargaining agreement, the 
salary tables to this agreement shall reflect an eighth salary step. Entitlement to the additional step shall be 
in accord with the provisions of the 1996-1999 agreement and with the provisions of Article 22 - Salary 
Administration. 
Section 4 - Selective Salary Adjustments. Effective January 1, 2000, employees in the classifications 
listed in E below shall be placed in the new salary range in the following manner: 
(A) Employees who are below the first step of the new salary range shall be placed at the first step of the 
new salary range. January 1 shall be established as the employee's salary eligibility date for future increases 
beginning in 2001; 
(B) Employees who have been at the top step of the former salary range since January 1, 1999, or earlier 
shall receive an increase of one step in the new salary range. January 1 shall be established as the 
employee's salary eligibility date for future increases beginning in 2001; 
(C) For an employee whose rate is within the new salary range, but not at a corresponding salary step, the 
employee's salary shall be maintained at the current rate until the next eligibility date. At the employee's 
next eligibility date, if qualified, the employee shall be granted a salary rate increase of one full step within 
the new salary range plus that amount that their current salary rate is below the next higher rate in the 
salary range. 
(D) All other employees shall be placed in the new salary range at a salary rate equivalent to their current 
rate and shall be eligible for increases on their salary eligibility date. 
(E) Effective January 1, 2000 new ranges for the following classifications have been bargained as follows: 

Classification  

Class #  

Prior Range  

New Range  

Dental Hygienist 

Electric and Control Systems Tech 

Electrician 

Facilities Engineer 1 

Facilities Engineer 2 

Facilities Engineer 3 

Grounds Maintenance Worker 1 

Grounds Maintenance Worker 2 

Laboratory Animal Tech 1 

Laboratory Animal Tech 2 

6396 

4248 

4213 

3251 

3252 

3253 

4109 

4110 

6880 

6881 

21  

24T  

23B  

23  

26  

28  

11  

13  

8  

10  

22  

25T  

24T  

27  

30  

32  

14  

16  

10  

13  

(F) Effective October 1, 1999, the following new classifications have pay ranges bargained as follows: 

Classification  

Class #  

Range  

Telecommunications Technician 1 

Telecommunications Technician 2 

Telecommunications Analyst 1 

Telecommunications Analyst 2 

Print Services Technician 

1491  

1493  

1494  

1495  

2477  

19  

22  

20  

23  

16  

Senior Nuclear Reactor Operator 
(G) Effective November 1, 1999, the following new classifications have pay ranges bargained as follows and 
in accordance with Article 69. 

3751  

22  

Classification  

Class #  

Range  

Operations Specialist 

Equipment Systems Specialist 

Information Technology Consultant 

Operating Systems/Network Analyst 

1460  

1461  

1462  

1463  

21I  

26I  

28I  

32I  

34I  

1464  

Analyst Programmer 
Section 5. Statement of Joint Intent/Commitment The parties are resolved to work jointly to achieve 
appropriate compensation increases through the specific mechanisms and commitments incorporated in this 
Article. The parties agree that the goal under this Article is to make bona fide efforts to progressively 
achieve (1) total compensation levels that represent plus or minus five (5) percent of market, as defined in 
Section 6 of this Article, for the classifications represented in Appendix A of this agreement; and (2) a 
compensation system that is fair and equitable. The parties agree and understand that any specific 
increases in compensation are subject to the availability and authorization of appropriated funds for the 
purpose. 
Section 6. Measures and Standards for Compensation Increases The parties agree that the 
appropriate measures and standards for determining appropriate levels for compensation increases shall 
include a market survey, which they shall jointly develop and update on an annual basis, and Consumer 
Price Index (CPI) data. The parties agree that the jointly developed market survey shall use as its base: 
comparators, benchmarks, base pay and benefits. Additionally the parties agree that they will rely on the 
CPI for Portland - Vancouver All Urban Consumers, as reported by the United States Department of Labor. 
The parties agree that both market survey data and CPI data will be considered together in making 
assessments and recommendations for compensation increases. 
Section 7. Establishment of Joint Committee on Compensation The parties agree to establish a 
Joint Committee on Compensation, which shall operate through the term of this Agreement. The Committee 
shall be composed of four members designated by each party. Members designated by the Union shall be in 
pay status for purposes of meetings of the committee. The committee shall meet at times and places as 
determined by the committee. The first meeting of the committee shall occur no later than December 1, 
1999. 

Section 8. Charter of Joint Committee on Compensation The purpose of the Joint Committee on 
Compensation will be to (1) assess market survey and CPI data as specified in Section 6 of this Article; (2) 
make recommendations for compensation increases consistent with the intent and commitments set forth in 
Section 5 of this Article; (3) review the existing system of compensation; and, (4) propose 
recommendations for the system of compensation consistent with the parties' intent as set forth in Section 5 
of this Article. 
Section 9. Submission of Compensation Increase Recommendations The Joint Committee on 
Compensation shall submit recommendations on increases, based upon the market and CPI indicators as 
specified in Section 6 of this Article and consistent with the commitments and intent of Section 5 of this 
Article no later than March 1, 2000. The recommendation shall be submitted concurrently to the Union and 
the Oregon University System. Subject to the approval of the Union and the Oregon University System, the 
recommendations shall be incorporated formally into the Oregon University System's budget request for 
consideration by the Board of Higher Education. 
Section 10. Submission of Report and Recommendations on Compensation System By March 1, 
2000, the Joint Committee on Compensation shall prepare and submit a report and recommendations on 
the system for employee compensation consistent with the parties intent as set forth in Section 5 of this 
Article. The report and recommendations shall address: (1) the classified positions as reflected in Appendix 
A of the Agreement; (2) the salary schedule and ranges as reflected in Appendix B of the Agreement; (3) 
the process of making selective salary adjustments; and (4) such other matters directly related to 
compensation of employees as mutually agreed to by the committee. The report and recommendations shall 
be submitted concurrently to the Union and to the Oregon University System. 
Section 11. Joint Compensation Committee Allocation A sum of $200,000 shall be set aside by OUS 
to fund selective salary adjustments as determined by the Joint Compensation Committee during the term 
of the Agreement. The Joint Compensation Committee shall meet and determine classification priorities and 
a timeline for allocating the $200,000 within the 1999-2001 biennium.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 22 - SALARY ADMINISTRATION 

Section 1. Pay. 

(A) Pay for employees in the bargaining unit shall be in accordance with the Compensation Plan 
adopted by the Oregon State Board of Higher Education as modified by this Agreement. No 
changes shall be made in the Compensation Plan which affect bargaining unit employees unless 
the parties to this Agreement have negotiated the changes and reached agreement on what 
changes will be made. This is not intended to prevent mechanical changes or other minor 
changes necessary to administer the Compensation Plan. 

(B) All employees shall be paid no later than the last day of the month. When a payday occurs 
on Monday through Friday, payroll checks shall be released to employees on that day. When 
payday falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, employee paychecks shall be made available after 
8:00 a.m. on the last working day of the month. When an employee is not scheduled to work on 
the payday, the paycheck may be released prior to payday if the paycheck is available and the 
employee has completed the "Request for Release of Payroll Check Form". However, the 
employee may not cash or deposit the check prior to the normal release time. Any violation of 
this provision may be cause for disciplinary action. All checks released early under this Article 
shall be accompanied by written notice from the Employer as to the normal release time and date 
for that employee and a statement that early cashing or depositing of the check may be cause 
for disciplinary action. 

(C) Employees shall be paid no less than the minimum rate of pay for their classification upon 
appointment to a position in OUS. An entrance salary rate may exceed the minimum rate when 
the university/college Appointing Authority believes it is in the best interest of the 
university/college to do so. 

(D) Release of sixty percent (60%) of an employee's earned gross wages prior to the employee's 
designated payday shall be authorized, subject to approval of the university/college Appointing 
Authority or designee, in emergency cases upon receipt of a written request from the employee 
that describes the emergency. An emergency situation shall be defined as an unusual, 
unforeseen event or condition that requires immediate financial attention by an employee. 
Emergencies include but are not limited to the following circumstances: 

(1) death in family; 

(2) major car repair; 

(3) theft of funds; 

(4) automobile accident (loss of vehicle use); 

(5) accident or sickness; 

(6) destruction or major damage to home; 

(7) new employee lack of funds (maximum 1 draw); or 

(8) moving due to transfer or promotion. 

Section 2. Submission of Salary Increases. Recommendations for salary increases must be 
made to be effective on the first day of the month and must be submitted prior to the proposed 
effective date. However, retroactive six (6) month and annual salary increases to correct errors 
or oversights and retroactive payments resulting from grievance settlements shall be authorized. 
The proposed effective date for retroactive six month and annual salary increases must be the 
first day of the month no more than twelve (12) months prior to the time of submitting the 
correcting recommendation. 

Section 3. Performance Increase. Salary administration shall be based upon a performance-
based system. Employees shall be granted an annual performance pay increase on their eligibility 
date if the employee is not at the top of the salary range of his/her classification, and provided 
the employee's performance has not been deficient. Employees who do not receive an annual 
performance pay increase shall receive timely notice of deficient performance or conduct during 
the evaluation period. Employees shall receive a notice related to the deficiencies as they are 
noted prior to the completion of the performance evaluation period. "Timely" shall be a 
reasonable amount of time, taking into consideration the specific alleged deficient performance. 
Such notice shall provide the employee with adequate opportunity to correct the problem prior to 
the end of the evaluation period. 

Employees shall be eligible for performance increases at the first of the month following the 
intervals of: 

(A) Annual periods after the initial date of hire until the employee has reached the top step in 
his/her salary range. However, should an employee be promoted during the first year of service 
with the Employer, the employee shall not receive this increase, but be eligible for increases in 
part (B). 

(B) The first six (6) months after promotion and annual periods thereafter until the employee 
has reached the top step in his/her salary range. 

Performance-pay shall use the following criteria: 

(1) classification specifications developed and promulgated by the Employer; 

(2) an individual position description reduced to writing; 

(3) written memoranda including letters of instruction, when necessary. Work 
plans where used will not be accepted as a substitute for notice of deficiency; 
and 

(4) disciplinary action. 

The above criteria shall be the primary factors upon which an employee's performance is judged 
and upon which annual performance pay decisions are determined. 

Section 4. Salary Increases - Academic Year. 

Employees whose full work year is generally an academic year shall have actual time worked and 
leave without pay considered in determining eligibility for annual increases. When an employee is 
increased to the maximum rate for that classification, that employee no longer has an eligibility 
date for a salary increase. 

Section 5. Salary on Demotion. 

Whenever an employee demotes to a job classification in a lower range that has a salary rate the 
same as the previous salary step, the employee's salary shall be maintained at that step in the 
lower range. 

Whenever an employee demotes to a job classification in a salary range which does not have 
corresponding salary steps with the employee's previous salary but is within the new salary 
range, the employee's salary shall be maintained at the current rate until the next eligibility date. 
At the employee's next eligibility date, if qualified, the employee shall be granted a salary rate 
increase of one (1) full step within the new salary range plus that amount that their current 
salary rate is below the next higher rate in the salary range. This increase shall not exceed the 
highest rate in the new salary range. 

Whenever employees demote to a job classification in a lower range, but their previous salary is 
above the highest step for that range, the employee shall be paid at the highest step in the new 
salary range. This section shall not apply to demotions resulting from official disciplinary actions. 

Section 6. Salary on Promotion. 

An employee shall be given an increase to the next higher rate in the new salary range effective 
on the date of promotion. 

If an employee is demoted or removed during trial service as a result of a promotion, his/her 
salary shall be reduced to the former step, and the previous salary eligibility date shall be 
restored. 

If the employee's salary eligibility date occurs during the promotional trial service period, upon 
reinstatement to the previous class, the salary eligibility date prior to promotion will be 
recognized. 

Section 7. Salary on Lateral Transfer. An employee's salary shall remain the same when 
transferring from one (1) position to another which has the same salary range. 

Section 8. Effect of Break in Service. When an employee separates from OUS service and 
subsequently returns to OUS service, in a bargaining unit position, the employee's salary 
eligibility date shall be determined by the university/college as follows: 

(A) Return from Recall List. The employee's previous salary eligibility date, adjusted by the 
amount of break in service, shall be restored. 

(B) Return from Reemployment. The employee's previous salary eligibility date, adjusted by 
the amount of break in service, shall represent the earliest salary eligibility date following return. 
However, the salary eligibility date may be established as the first of the month in any future 
month up to twelve (12) months from the date of reemployment. 

Section 9. Rate of Pay on Appointment from Layoff List. When an individual is appointed 
from a layoff list to a position in the same classification in which the person was previously 
employed, the person shall be paid at the same salary step at which such employee was being 
paid at the time of layoff. The salary eligibility date of an individual who is appointed from a 
layoff list shall be determined in accordance with Section 8. 

Section 10. Rate of Pay on Return to OUS by Reemployment. When a former employee is 
appointed from reemployment to a position in the same classification in which he/she was 
previously employed or in a related classification with the same salary range, he/she may be paid 
at or below the step at which he/she was being paid at the time of his/her termination. If a 
person is reemployed in a position in a classification with a lower salary range than that of 
his/her previous position, he/she may be paid at any step in the lower salary range not exceeding 
the rate he/she was being paid in the higher classification, except where exceptional 
circumstances justify payment of a higher rate. The salary eligibility date of a former employee 
who is appointed from reemployment shall be determined in accordance with Section 8. 

Section 11. Recoupment of Wage and Benefits Overpayments. Except as provided in 
Article 56, Section 2, in the event the employee receives wages or benefits from the 
university/college to which the employee is not entitled, regardless of whether the employee 
knew or should have known of the overpayment, the university/college shall notify the employee 
in writing of the overpayment which will include information supporting that an overpayment 
exists and the amount of wages and/or benefits to be repaid. For purposes of recovering 
overpayments by payroll deduction, the following shall apply: 

(A) The university/college shall be limited in using the payroll deduction process to a maximum 
period of three (3) years before the notification. 

(B) The employee and the university/college shall meet and attempt to reach mutual agreement 
on a repayment schedule within thirty (30) calendar days following written communication. 

(C) If there is no mutual agreement at the end of the thirty (30) day calendar period, the 
university/college shall implement the repayment schedule stated in subsection (D) below. 

(D) If the overpayment amount to be repaid is more than five percent (5%) of the employee’s 
regular monthly base salary, the overpayment shall be recovered in monthly amounts not 
exceeding five percent (5%) of the employee’s base salary. If an overpayment is less than five 
percent (5%) of the employee’s regular monthly salary base, the overpayment shall be recovered 
in a lump sum deduction from the employee’s paycheck. If an employee leaves university/college 
service before the university/college fully recovers the overpayment, the remaining amount may 
be deducted from the employee’s final check(s). 

(E) Notwithstanding the above, subsections (B), (C), and (D) shall not apply to payroll 
adjustments necessitated by a discrepancy between actual hours of paid time versus hours 
projected for payroll purposes from one pay period to another. For example, if an employee 
utilizes leave without pay near the end of a month but is paid for such time because leave 
without pay was not anticipated at the payroll cutoff date for that month, the employee’s pay and 
benefit entitlements may be adjusted on the following month’s paycheck. 

(F) An employee who disagrees with the university/college determination that an overpayment 
has been made to the employee, may grieve the determination through the grievance procedure. 
The employee may grieve after the thirty (30) calendar day period as stated in Section 11(B), if 
mutual agreement concerning the overpayment has not been reached. 

(G) This section does not waive the university/college’s right to pursue other legal procedures 
and processes to recoup an overpayment made to an employee at any time. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 23 PAYROLL COMPUTATION PROCEDURES 

Section 1. Definitions. 

(A) Permanent Full-Time - a permanent position equivalent to eight (8) hours per day or forty 
(40) hours per week. A permanent full-time employee will be paid on a monthly salary basis, and 
all benefits will be calculated on a monthly or hourly pay status basis. 

(B) Permanent Part-Time - a permanent position less than permanent full-time. A permanent 
part-time employee will be paid on a fixed partial monthly or hourly salary basis, and all benefits 
will be calculated on a partial monthly or pay period, pay status basis. All permanent part-time 
employees whose work hours are regularly scheduled (work hours are based on a predetermined 
schedule) shall be paid on a fixed partial monthly basis. 

(C) Seasonal Full-Time - a seasonal position normally equivalent to eight (8) hours per day or 
forty (40) hours per week. An employee in such position will be paid on a monthly, hourly or 
fixed partial monthly salary basis. All benefits will be calculated on a partial monthly or pay 
period, pay status basis, whichever is appropriate. 

(D) Seasonal Part-Time - a seasonal position normally less than equivalent to eight (8) hours 
per day or forty (40) hours per week. An employee in such position will be paid on an hourly 
basis and all benefits will be calculated on a partial pay period, pay status basis. 

(E) Number of workdays in month or pay period - number of possible workdays in the 
month or pay period based on the employee's weekly work schedule, such as Monday - Friday, 
Tuesday - Saturday, etc. Holidays that fall within the employee's work schedule are counted as 
workdays for that month or pay period. 

(F) Hourly rates of pay - the hourly equivalent of the monthly base rates of pay as published 
in the Compensation Plan. The hourly rates are computed by dividing the monthly salary by 
173.33. 

(G) Partial month's pay - a prorated monthly or pay period salary. The number of hours 
actually worked by an employee divided by the total number of possible hours in the month or 
pay period based on the work schedule, times the full monthly or pay period salary rate. For 
example, if the employee works 115 hours in a month or pay period with a possible work 
schedule of 121 hours, the partial month's pay is computed as follows: 

115 x full month salary = gross partial pay  
121 

(H) Days worked - includes all days actually worked, all holidays and all paid leave, which 
occurs within an employee's service period. 
Section 2. General Compensation. 
(A) Permanent Full-Time Employees - Pay and benefits will be computed on a monthly pay 
status basis. 
(B) Permanent Part-Time Employees 
(1) Pay and benefits will be computed on a prorated monthly or pay period basis, such as one-
half monthly or pay period pay for a half-time employee. Permanent part-time employees in 
permanent full-time positions will be treated as permanent part-time for purposes of this Article. 
(2) Employees paid on a fixed partial monthly basis shall have all extra hours worked over the 
regular part-time schedule paid at the hourly rate. Employees paid on a fixed partial monthly 
basis who work less than the regular part-time schedule shall have time deducted at the hourly 
rate or prorated monthly rate, depending on how their pay is regularly computed. 
(C) Seasonal Full-Time Employees - Pay and benefits will be computed on a monthly, 
prorated monthly or an hourly pay period, pay status basis. 
(D) Seasonal Part-Time Employees - Pay will be computed on an hourly basis, and pay and 
benefits will be normally prorated on a pay period, pay status basis. 
(E) Job Sharing Employees - The total time worked by all job share employees in one (1) 
position will not exceed 1.0 FTE. 
(F) Partial month's pay or partial pay period. 
(1) Partial month's pay (or prorated monthly or pay period pay) is applied when: 
(a) A full-time employee is hired on a date other than the first working day of the month or pay 
period (based on employee's work schedule). 
(b) A full-time employee separates prior to the last workday in the month or pay period (based 
on the employee's work schedule). 
(c) A full-time employee is placed on leave without pay or returns from leave without pay. 
(d) An employee is appointed to a permanent part-time position. 
 
(2) See definition for partial month's pay under Section 1(g) for computation procedures. 

(G) Changes in salary rate - When an employee's salary rate changes in the middle of a 
month, pay will be computed on the fractional amount of hours worked at each salary rate during 
the month. For example: 
actual hours x old rate + actual hours x new rate = gross pay  
possible hours possible hours 
Section 3. The parties agree that if the Employer adopts a biweekly pay plan, this Article of the 
Agreement will be open for renegotiation. 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 24 - INSURANCE 

Section 1. Definition of Participants. The intent of this Article is to define participants who 
receive an Employer contribution toward the cost of insurance. For purposes of this Agreement, 
the following definitions apply. 

(A) Employer Insurance Program. The definition of Employer insurance includes any 
insurance program authorized or sponsored by the Employer to provide insurance benefits for 
employees of the Oregon University System. 

(B) Eligibility. Employees who meet eligibility requirements of the Employer insurance program 
are considered to participate. 

(C) Opt-Out. Employees who elect to opt-out of medical coverage are considered to participate. 

Section 2. Employer Contribution. An Employer contribution for insurance will be made for 
each participant, according to full- or part-time status. 

(A) Full-Time Employees. Employer shall make the full contribution for employees who have 
at least eighty (80) paid hours in a month. 

(B) Part-Time Employees. For part-time employees who have at least eighty (80) paid regular 
hours in the month, the Employer shall contribute a pro-rated amount of the contribution for full-
time employees. For the purposes of pro-ration, part-time employees include part-time, seasonal 
part-time, intermittent and job share employees described in Article 23 of this Agreement. 

(1) The minimum Employer contribution for part-time employees who have at least eighty (80) 
paid regular hours in a one-month pay period is 50% of the full contribution for full-time 
employees. However, for plan year 2000, the prorated contribution will not be less than the cost 
of Blue Cross PPO Basic plus dental for the applicable tier. 

(2) The Employer contribution shall be pro-rated for paid regular hours between 80 and 160 
hours in a pay period, to the nearest full percent, not to exceed 100% of the full-time 
contribution. 

(3) In the event that a less than full-time employee, who is regularly scheduled to work half-time 
or more, fails to maintain at least half-time paid regular hours because of the effect of pro-rated 
holiday time or other paid or unpaid time off, he/she shall be allowed to use available vacation or 

comp time to maintain his/her eligibility for benefits and the Employer's contribution for such 
benefits. 

(C) Contribution Rate. The Employer contribution is provided for medical and dental insurance 
as well as to purchase additional, available benefits under the Employer insurance program. 

(1) The Employer contribution for insurance benefits to full-time, eligible participants will be: 

(a) Plan Year 2000 - A composite rate of $470 per month per full-time employee. 

(b) Plan Year 2001 

(b1) In June 2000, the parties will meet to set the tiered rates for 2001; 

(b2) Tiered rates for Plan Year 2001 for employee and family and for employee and spouse shall 
be sufficient to cover the 2001 costs equal to PEBB prototype HMO plans and traditional dental 
coverage; and 

(b3) Tiered rates for employee only and for employee and children shall be set at a level which, 
in conjunction with tiered rates for employee and family and employee and spouse under (b2) 
above, result in an overall composite rate of $470 per FTE per month. 

(2) The Employer contribution remains in effect until the end of the plan year, December 2001. 

(3) The employee may select among the plans offered by the Employer insurance program to 
optimize coverage and costs that best meet each employee's status. Where the cost of coverage 
is less than the Employer contribution, the employee receives the difference in cash, as "cash 
back". Where the cost of coverage exceeds the Employer contribution, the difference is paid by 
the employee out of pocket. 

(D) From July 1999 until December 1999, the Employer contribution shall be $424/month. 
Thirty-eight dollars ($38.00) per month of Employer contribution will be used to continue 
payment of the Union Flex benefit which ends December 1999. (See Article 21-Salary, for flex 
conversion). 

Section 3. Coordination of Benefits. The Employer insurance program may adopt any of the 
Coordination of Benefits alternatives described in the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners (NAIC) model acts and regulations. 

Section 4. Administration. The Employer will make payment for employee insurance directly 
to the appropriate insurance carriers and/or administrators. 

Section 5. Proprietary Interest. The Employer ceases to have proprietary interest in its own 
contributions to the insurance plan when it pays such funds to the carrier or to persons who have 
irrevocable duty to transfer such payment to carriers and/or providers when due. 

 
 

ARTICLE 25 - OVERTIME 

Section 1. Definition of Time Worked. 

All time for which an employee is compensated at the regular straight time rate of pay, except 
standby time and penalty payment(s) (Articles 26 and 30) but including holiday time off, 
compensatory time off and other paid leave, shall be counted as time worked. Holidays which fall 
on an employee's scheduled day off shall not count as time worked toward computation of 
overtime. 

Section 2. Overtime Work Definition. 

Overtime for employees working a regular work schedule is time worked in excess of eight (8) 
hours per day or forty (40) hours per work week. Overtime for employees working an irregular 
work schedule is time in excess of ten (10) hours per day or forty (40) hours per work week. 
Overtime for employees working a flexible work schedule is time in excess of the agreed upon 
hours each day or time in excess of forty (40) hours per work week. Time worked beyond regular 
schedules by employees scheduled for less than eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per 
work week is additional straight time worked rather than overtime until the hours worked exceed 
eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per work week. In a split shift, the time an employee 
works in a day after twelve (12) hours from the time the employee initially reports for work is 
overtime. For purposes of this Article, time worked includes telephone calls made to an employee 
or by an employee after his/her work shift for work-related purposes. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing eligibility criteria, in cases where the application of reporting time 
changes or a "penalty" payment is appropriate, the rate of compensation shall be the straight 
time hourly rate of pay. 

Section 3. Compensation. 

All employees shall be compensated for overtime at the rates set out in Section 4. No application 
of this Article shall be construed or interpreted to provide for compensation for overtime at a rate 
exceeding time and one-half (1-1/2), or to effect a "pyramiding" of overtime and penalty 
payments. 

Section 4. Eligibility for Overtime Compensation. 

(A) Overtime Eligible Positions. Time and one-half (1-1/2) their regular hourly rate unless a 
determination at the date this Agreement is effective has been made that the position is 
executive, administrative, or professional as defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Such 
time and one-half (1-1/2) compensation shall be in the form of cash or compensatory time, 
pursuant to Section 7 of this Article. 

(B) Straight Time Eligible Positions. Employees in positions which have been determined to 
be executive, administrative or professional as defined by the FLSA shall receive time off for 
authorized time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week at the 
rate of one (1) hour off for one (1) hour of overtime worked subject to the limitations of Section 
8 of this Article. 

This time off shall be utilized within the fiscal year earned or shall be lost, except when the 
scheduling has been extended by the university/college or as otherwise specified below. At ninety 
(90) days prior to loss of such compensatory time, employees shall be notified that they must use 
or lose the hours. Time earned in the last ninety (90) days may, at the discretion of 
management, be carried forward into the next fiscal year. However, such carry forward may not 

increase the total compensatory time that may be accrued in that year. If time off requests are 
denied for use of accrued leave before the year ends, these accrued hours will be paid in cash 
upon forfeiture. Employees will take all necessary steps to request use of compensatory time 
during the fiscal year. 

(C) No overtime is to be worked without the prior authorization of management. 

Section 5. Schedule Change. 

When a change of work schedule is requested by an employee and approved by the 
university/college, all forms of penalty pay shall be waived by the employee. When a change of 
work schedule is requested by an employee and approved by the university/college, overtime 
compensation for work over eight (8) hours per day, but not for work over forty (40) hours per 
week, associated with the changed schedule shall be waived. 

Section 6. Record. 

A record of all overtime worked shall be maintained by the university/college. 

Section 7. Assigning Overtime 

(A) The university/college shall give as much notice as possible of overtime to be worked. In 
assigning overtime work, the university/college shall consider any circumstances which might 
cause such an assignment to be an unusual burden upon the employee. When such 
circumstances do exist, the employee shall not be required to work unless his/her absence would 
cause the university/college to be unable to meet its responsibilities. 

(B) Overtime shall be distributed as equally as feasible each month among qualified employees 
customarily performing the kind of work required, and currently assigned to the work section in 
which the overtime is to be worked. Employees not required to work under paragraph (A) of this 
Section shall have the overtime foregone recognized for the sole purpose of equalization. The 
university/college shall maintain a record of all overtime worked and shall post this record 
monthly in each work section. 

(C) All employees shall receive cash for overtime worked unless the employee elects to receive 
compensatory time off. If the employee wishes to receive compensatory time off in lieu of cash, 
the employee must submit a written request to his/her supervisor no later than the employee's 
first regular workday following the date the overtime was worked. Employees may not accrue 
more than one hundred twenty (120) hours of accrued comp time. 

(D) Cash payment for overtime earned after the payroll cutoff date shall be made by the next 
payroll period following the pay period in which overtime is worked. 

(E) The university/college shall provide a meal or reimbursement for each eligible employee who 
is required to work two (2) or more hours beyond the end of his/her work shift when such 
additional work causes the employee to miss his/her regular meal. Where the university/college 
elects to provide reimbursement, the employee will be reimbursed pursuant to the in-state rate 
established in Article 27, which is appropriate to the time of day the overtime was worked. 

(F) Subject to operating requirements of the university/college, an employee shall have his/her 
choice of compensatory time off. If two (2) or more employees request the same period of time 

off and the matter cannot be resolved by agreement of the employees concerned, the employee 
having the greatest length of service within the university/college shall be granted the time off. 

 
 

ARTICLE 26 - STANDBY DUTY 

Section 1. Employees shall be paid one (1) hour of pay at the regular straight time rate for each 
six (6) hours of assigned standby duty. Employees who are assigned standby duty for less than 
six (6) hours shall be paid on a prorated basis. 

Section 2. An employee shall be on standby duty when required to be available for work outside 
his/her normal working hours. 

Section 3. When a worksite or duty station is also an employee's private residence during off 
duty hours, time spent at home shall be considered standby duty only when the following 
conditions exist: 

(A) the university/college requires that an employee be restricted to a work site or duty station 
for a specific period of time; and, 

(B) the employee is required and must be prepared to commence full-time work if the need 
arises. 

Section 4. An employee shall not be on standby duty once he/she actually commences 
performing assigned duties and receives the appropriate rate of pay for time worked. 

Section 5. No employee is eligible for any premium pay compensation while on standby duty 
except as expressly stated in this Article. 

Section 6. Standby duty time shall not be counted as time worked in the computation of 
overtime hours worked but standby pay shall be included in the calculation of the overtime rate 
of pay.  

 
 
ARTICLE 27 - TRAVEL ALLOWANCE 
 
The Employer and the Union agree to use the OUS policy 11.02D in the OUS Financial 
Administrative Standard Operating Manual (FASOM) or its successor. The Employer will give the 
Union at least thirty (30) days notice of any proposed changes to this policy. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 28 - MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT 
 
Mileage reimbursement will be in accordance with rates established in the OUS Financial 
Administrative Standard Operating Manual (FASOM) or its successor. The Employer will give the 
Union at least thirty (30) days notice of any proposed changes to this policy. 
 

ARTICLE 29 - MOVING EXPENSES 
 
The Employer and the Union agree to use the OUS policy 11.09 in the OUS Financial 
Administrative Standard Operating Manual (FASOM) or its successor. The Employer will give the 
Union at least thirty (30) days notice of any proposed changes to this policy. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 30 - PENALTY PAY 

Section 1. Call Back Compensation. 

(A) Call back is an occasion where an employee has been released from duty and is called back 
to work prior to his/her normal starting time. On such occasions, the employee's scheduled or 
recognized shift shall be made available for work, except that the university/college shall not be 
obligated to work the employee more than twelve (12) consecutive hours and the employee may 
choose not to work more than twelve (12) consecutive hours, excluding meal periods, of 
combined call back time and regular shift time. 

(B) An employee who is called back to work outside his/her scheduled work shift shall be paid a 
minimum of the equivalent of two (2) hours pay at the overtime rate of pay computed from when 
the employee actually begins work. After two (2) hours work, in each call back situation, the 
employee shall be compensated at the appropriate rate of pay for time worked. 

(C) This provision does not apply to telephone calls at home or overtime work which is 
essentially a continuation of the scheduled work shift. 

Section 2. Reporting Compensation 

(A) Reporting time is the time designated or recognized as the start of the daily work shift or 
weekly work schedule. 

(B) An employee's reporting time may be changed two (2) hours earlier or two (2) hours later, or 
less, without penalty, if the employee is notified a minimum of twelve (12) hours before the next 
regularly scheduled reporting time. If the employee's reporting time is changed without proper 
notice, the employee shall be entitled to a penalty payment of fourteen dollars ($14.00). 

(C) An employee's reporting time may be changed more than two (2) hours, earlier or later, 
without penalty, if the employee is notified a minimum of five (5) workdays in advance. If the 
employee's reporting time is changed without the required notice, the employee shall be entitled 
to a penalty payment of twenty one dollars ($21.00). The penalty payment shall continue until 
the notice requirement is met or the employee is returned to his/her reporting time(s), whichever 
occurs first. 

Section 3. Show Up Compensation 

An employee who is scheduled for work and reports for work, except for situations addressed in 
Article 66, Inclement Conditions, and is released from work shall be paid the equivalent of two 
(2) hours pay at the appropriate rate. When an employee actually begins his/her scheduled shift, 
the employee shall be paid for the remainder of the scheduled shift. 

Part-time hourly paid employees, who actually begin their scheduled shift, shall be paid for the 
remainder of their scheduled shift. 

Section 4. Modification of Work Schedule 

When a change of work schedule is requested by an employee and approved by the 
university/college, all forms of penalty pay shall be waived by the employee. When a change of 
work schedule is requested by an employee and approved by the university/college, overtime 
compensation for work over eight (8) hours per day, but not for work over forty (40) hours per 
week, associated with the changed schedule shall be waived. 

Section 5. Penalty Pay Mileage Call Back (UO, PSU) 

In addition to the pay for call back time and with the exception of employees who do not return 
home before commencing another shift, private car mileage will be paid to employees at the rate 
prescribed in Article 28, Mileage Reimbursement, from and to the employee’s home when the 
employee has been called back to work. 

 
 
ARTICLE 31 - CAREER DEVELOPMENT 
 
Section 1. The Employer will provide normal promotional path and career development 
counseling for bargaining unit employees. Counseling will include review of the minimum 
qualifications necessary for potential classifications. Bargaining unit employees are encouraged to 
contact their appropriate university/college Human Resource Section to secure promotional path 
counseling within their university/college. The Union will notify bargaining unit employees of the 
career counseling services. 
 
Section 2. Two (2) Union representatives and two (2) Employer representatives will meet, if 
requested by either party, to discuss utilization and results of the service provided by this Article. 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 32 - AFFIRMATIVE ACTION 
 
The Employer agrees to have a designee from the Union’s Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity 
Committee to present and discuss their affirmative action plan including but not limited to, efforts 
to recruit, retain and promote minorities and women. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 33 - FILLING OF VACANCIES 

Section 1. Definitions For the purpose of this Article, the term Human Resource unit refers to 
the department or unit that is responsible for the human resource and personnel functions at 
each university/college. 

Section 2. Applicant Pools Vacancies will be filled through the use of pools of eligible 
candidates, except for direct appointments, transfers or demotions. Pools will be established 

based on minimum and special qualifications, fitness and ability of the person to perform the 
required duties. Each university/college retains all rights to determine the method(s) of selection, 
qualifications, term of eligibility and the individuals to fill vacancies after consideration of (A) and 
(B): 

(A) Injured Workers The university/college shall first consider eligible injured workers. 

(B) University/College Layoff List Names of regular status employees from the 
university/college who have separated in good standing by layoff or have demoted in lieu of 
layoff shall be placed on lists established by the classification from which the employee was laid 
off or demoted in lieu of layoff and by geographic area. The order on this list shall be determined 
by seniority computation procedures as defined in Article 51. 

Section 3. Promotional Opportunities Each university/college shall promote upward mobility 
of employees by announcing opportunities as they occur. In all cases, it is the employee’s 
responsibility to make proper application for such positions. If an employee meets the minimum 
and special qualifications for a position, he/she will be considered. 

Section 4. Transfers An employee may transfer or be transferred from one position to another 
in the same classification or salary range. To voluntarily transfer, it is the employee’s 
responsibility to make proper application for such positions. If an employee meets the minimum 
and special qualifications for the position, he/she will be considered. 

Section 5. Posting Upon execution of this Agreement, each university/college will provide a list 
of locations where vacancies, transfers, and promotional opportunities are posted at each 
university/college. If modifications are made to this list, the university/college shall meet and 
confer with the Union regarding a suitable alternative posting location. 

Section 6. Interviews Employees called for interviews relating to other employment 
opportunities within the Oregon University System shall be allowed a reasonable time away from 
their jobs to attend the interviews without the use of leave with or without pay. A reasonable 
amount of time is defined as the time necessary to travel to the interview location, complete the 
interview and return to the worksite, up to a maximum of two (2) hours. An employee who needs 
more than two (2) hours for an interview shall be allowed to use accrued leave and/or leave 
without pay for the balance of the interview in excess of two (2) hours. 

Section 7. Length of Service Subject to the requirements of affirmative action and equal 
employment opportunity, if two or more employees are being considered for the same position 
and are equal in every respect, the position shall be given to the employee with the greater 
amount of seniority as defined in Article 51. 

Section 8. Ineligibility for Transfer At the discretion of management, an employee who was 
subject to discipline or denial of a merit step salary increase, reduction in pay, demotion or 
suspension within the previous twelve (12) months may not be eligible for transfer. 

Section 9. Demotion An employee may demote or be demoted from a position in one 
classification to a position in a lower classification or salary range. To voluntarily demote, the 
employee must make written application to the university/college Appointing Authority or Human 
Resource Unit as appropriate and must meet the minimum and special qualifications. 

Section 10. Direct Appointment The university/college may use noncompetitive selection and 
appointment for unskilled or semi-skilled positions or where job related ranking measures are not 

practical or appropriate. Direct appointments may also be made under the following 
circumstances: 

(A) An administrative or court order, tort settlement, or grievance resolution requires the 
appointment; 

(B) The person has completed an apprenticeship program within the university/college, 
appointment to which was through a competitive process; 

(C) The person separated from the university/college, within the past two years in good standing 
and is applying for a position in an equivalent or lower classification; 

(D) The person is being transferred into an equivalent or lower classification within the 
university/college; or 

(E) A competitive recruitment results in no suitable candidates and the person meets the 
minimum qualifications for a related position in a lower classification and the person will meet the 
minimum qualifications of the position within 24 months of the appointment. 

Section 11. Removal from Consideration Employees may be removed from consideration for 
promotion or transfer for any of the following reasons: 

(A) Expiration of application eligibility; 

(B) Failure to report for duty within the time specified; 

(C) The employee is found to lack the qualifications required for the classification, had used or 
attempted to use political pressure or bribery to secure an advantage in testing or appointment, 
had made false statements of any material fact or had practiced or attempted to practice 
deception or fraud in the application or test, or had some unique undesirable characteristic that 
removes the candidate from consideration for any or all positions in the university/college; 

(D Appointment to a position; or 

(E) The employee is found to be not suitable for job related reasons for a given position or for all 
positions in the university/college due to poor Employer references or work performance, poor 
driving record, or criminal conviction. Except for the expiration of application eligibility, any 
employee whose name is removed from consideration for promotion or transfer shall be notified 
of the reason for such removal. 

 
 
ARTICLE 34 - VETERANS' PREFERENCE 
 
ORS 408.210 to 408.280 shall be applied as appropriate to all Articles covered by this Agreement. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 35 - TRIAL SERVICE 

Section 1. Each employee appointed to a position in the bargaining unit by initial appointment, 
appointment to a different classification from which the employee separated with regular status 
after any break in service, appointment from a non-bargaining unit position, or promotion shall 
serve a trial service period. 

A new trial service shall not be required if the employee returns after a break in service of less 
than twenty-four (24) months to a classification which is the same as or a successor to a 
classification which the employee occupied as a regular status employee prior to the break in 
service. Additionally, it is expressly understood that an employee who is recalled from a layoff list 
in accordance with Article 51 shall not be required to serve a new trial service. 

Section 2. The trial service period is recognized as an extension of the selection process and is 
the time immediately following appointment and shall not exceed six (6) full months. For part-
time employees hired after August 31, 1995, trial service shall be 1,040 hours. 

Section 3. Trial service may be extended in instances where a trial service employee has been 
on a cumulative leave without pay for fifteen (15) days or more and then only by the number of 
days the employee was on such leave. When the university/college Appointing Authority has 
established a professional or technical training program for positions requiring graduation from a 
four (4) year college or university or the satisfactory equivalent thereof in training and 
experience, including but not limited to the training of accountants and auditors, which is for the 
purpose of developing the skills or knowledge necessary for competent job performance in the 
specialized work of such authority, the employee may be required to train under such program 
for a period not exceeding six (6) months and the trial service period for such employee shall be 
the length of the approved training program plus six (6) full months. Trial service for any 
employee hired or promoted as a "Special Campus Security Officer" under ORS 352.385 shall be 
six (6) months or shall terminate upon the successful completion of the Department of Public 
Safety Standards and Training (DPSST) OUS certification course, whichever is later; but in no 
case shall trial service last more than twelve months. 

Section 4. When, in the judgment of the university/college Appointing Authority, performance 
has been adequate to clearly demonstrate the competence and fitness of the trial service 
employee, the university/college Appointing Authority may at any time appoint the employee to 
regular status. 

Section 5. Trial service employees may be removed from service when, in the judgment of the 
university/college Appointing Authority, the employee is unable or unwilling to perform his/her 
duties satisfactorily or his/her habits and dependability do not merit continuation in service. 
Removals under this Article are not subject to the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure. 

Section 6. An employee who is removed from trial service following a promotion shall have the 
right of return to the university/college and the classification or comparable salary level from 
which the employee was promoted, unless charges are filed and he/she is discharged as provided 
in Article 17-Discipline and Discharge. 

Section 7. If any employee is removed from his/her position during or at the end of his/her trial 
service period and the administrator determines that he/she is suitable for appointment to 
another position, his/her name may be restored to the suitable position pool, if the pool is still 
active.  

 
 

ARTICLE 36 - TRANSFER DURING TRIAL SERVICE 
 
Section 1. An employee who is transferred to another position in the same classification or a 
different classification at the same or lower salary level in the same university/college shall 
complete the trial service period by adding the service time in the former position. 
 
Section 2. An employee who is transferred to another position in the same classification or a 
different classification at the same or lower salary level in another university/college prior to the 
completion of the trial service must complete a full trial service period in the new position. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 37 - LIMITED DURATION APPOINTMENT 

Section 1. Persons may be hired for special studies or projects of uncertain or limited duration 
which are subject to the continuation of a grant, contract, award or legislative funding for a 
specific project. Such appointments shall be for a stated period not exceeding two (2) years but 
shall expire upon the earlier termination of the special study or projects. 

Section 2. 

(A) No newly hired person on a limited duration appointment shall be entitled to layoff rights. 

(B) A person appointed from regular status to a limited duration appointment shall be entitled to 
rights under the layoff procedure within the new university/college. 

Section 3. A person accepting such appointment shall be notified of the conditions of the 
appointment and acknowledge in writing that they accept that appointment under these 
conditions. Such notification shall include the following: 

(A) that the appointment is of limited duration; 

(B) that the appointment may cease at any time; 

(C) that persons who accept a limited duration appointment who were not formerly classified 
OUS employees shall have no layoff rights. 

(D) those persons who accept a limited duration appointment who were formerly classified OUS 
employees are entitled to rights under the layoff procedure starting from the prior class within 
the new university/college; and 

(E) that in all other respects, limited duration appointees have all rights and privileges of other 
classified employees including but not limited to wages, benefits and Union representation under 
this Agreement. 

 
 

ARTICLE 38 - JOB SHARING 

Section 1. Job sharing position means a full-time position that may be held by more than one 
(1) individual on a shared time basis whereby each of the individuals holding the position works 
less than full-time. 

Section 2. Job sharing is a voluntary program. Any employee who wishes to participate in job 
sharing may submit a written request to the university/college Appointing Authority to be 
considered for job share positions. The university/college Appointing Authority shall determine if 
job sharing is appropriate for a specific position and will recruit and select employees for job 
share positions. Where job sharing is determined appropriate, the university/college Appointing 
Authority agrees to provide written notification to all job share applicants of available job share 
positions in their office in the university/college. 

Section 3. Job sharing employees shall accrue vacation leave, sick leave and holiday pay based 
on a prorate of hours worked in a month. Individual salary review dates will be established for 
job share employees. 

Section 4. If one (1) job sharing partner in a job sharing position is removed, dismissed, resigns 
or otherwise is separated from service, the university/college Appointing Authority has the right 
to determine if job sharing is still appropriate for the position. If the university/college Appointing 
Authority determines that job sharing is not appropriate for the position or the university/college 
Appointing Authority is unable to recruit qualified employees for the job share position, the 
remaining employee shall have the right to assume the position on a full-time basis. Upon 
approval of the university/college Appointing Authority, the remaining employee may elect to 
transfer to a vacant part-time position in the same classification or to voluntarily demote. If the 
above conditions are not available or acceptable, the employee agrees to resign.  

 
 
ARTICLE 39 - VOLUNTARY DEMOTION 
 
An employee may make a request in writing to the university/college Appointing Authority for a 
demotion from a position in one (1) classification to a vacant position in a classification of a lower 
rank for which the employee is qualified. If the university/college Appointing Authority approves 
the request, the employee so demoted, may, at a later date, request that his/her name be placed 
on an appropriate list for reemployment to the higher classification. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 40 - PERSONAL LEAVE DAYS 

Section 1. All employees after completion of six (6) months of service shall be entitled to receive 
personal leave days in the following manner: 

(A) All full-time employees shall be entitled to sixteen (16) hours of personal leave with pay each 
fiscal year; 

(B) Part-time, seasonal, and job share employees shall be granted such leave in a prorated 
amount of sixteen (16) hours based on the same percentage or fraction of month they are hired 
to work, or as subsequently formally modified, provided it is anticipated that they will work 1,040 
hours during the fiscal year; 

Section 2. Should any employee fail to work 1,040 hours for the fiscal year, the value of 
personal leave time used may be recovered from the employee. 

Section 3. Personal leave shall not be cumulative from year to year nor is any unused leave 
compensable in any other manner. 

Section 4. Such leave may be used by an employee for any purpose he/she desires and may be 
taken at times mutually agreeable to the university/college and the employee.  

 
 

ARTICLE 41 - SICK LEAVE 

Section 1. Sick Leave with Pay Sick leave with pay for employees shall be determined in the 
following manner: 

(A) Eligibility for sick leave with pay. Employees shall be eligible for sick leave with pay 
immediately upon accrual. 

(B) Determination of service for sick leave with pay. Actual time worked and all leave with 
pay, except for educational leave, shall be included in determining the pro rata accrual of sick 
leave credits each month. 

(C) Accrual rate of sick leave with pay credits. Full-time employees shall accrue eight (8) 
hours of sick leave with pay credits for each full month they are in pay status. Employees who 
are in pay status for less than a full month shall accrue sick leave with pay on a prorated basis. A 
temporary employee appointed to a permanent position in this bargaining unit, in the same 
university/college without a break in service of more than fifteen (15) calendar days shall accrue 
sick leave credits from the initial date of appointment to the temporary position. 

Section 2. Utilization of Sick Leave with Pay. Employees who have earned sick leave credits 
shall be eligible for sick leave for any period of absence from employment which is due to the 
employee's illness, bodily injury, disability resulting from pregnancy, necessity for medical or 
dental care, attendance at an employee assistance program, exposure to contagious disease, 
attendance upon members of the employee's immediate family (employee's parent, wife, 
husband, children, brother, sister, grandmother, grandfather, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or 
another member of the immediate household) where the employee's presence is required 
because of illness or death in the immediate family of the employee or the employee's spouse. 
The employee has the duty to insure that he/she makes other arrangements, within a reasonable 
period of time, for the attendance upon children or other persons in the employee's care. 
Certification of an attending physician or practitioner may be required by the university/college to 
support the employee's claim for sick leave if the employee is absent in excess of seven (7) days, 
or if the university/college has evidence that the employee is abusing sick leave privileges. The 
university/college may also require such certificate from an employee to determine whether the 
employee should be allowed to return to work where the university/college has reason to believe 
that the employee's return to work would be a health hazard to either the employee or to others. 
In cases of pregnancy, the university/college may require a certificate from the attending 
physician to determine if the employee should be allowed to work. 

Section 3. Sick Leave Exhausted. 

(A) After earned sick leave has been exhausted, the university/college shall grant sick leave 
without pay for any job-incurred injury or illness for a period which shall terminate upon demand 
by the employee for reinstatement accompanied by a certificate issued by the duly licensed 
attending physician that the employee is physically and/or mentally able to perform the duties of 
the position. 

(B) After earned sick leave has been exhausted, the university/college may grant sick leave 
without pay for any non-job-incurred injury or illness of a continuous and extended nature to any 
employee upon request for a period up to one (1) year. Extensions of sick leave without pay for a 
non-job-incurred injury or illness beyond one (1) year may be approved by the university/college. 

(C) The university/college or the administrator may require that the employee submit a 
certificate from the attending physician or practitioner in verification of a disability, or its 
continuance resulting from a job-incurred or non-job-incurred injury or illness. Any cost 
associated with the supplying of a certificate concerning a job-incurred injury or illness that is not 
covered by Workers' Compensation benefits shall be borne by the employing university/college. 
Any cost associated with the supplying of a certificate concerning a non-job-incurred injury or 
illness shall be borne by the employee. In the event of a failure or refusal to supply such a 
certificate, or if the certificate does not clearly show sufficient disability to preclude that 
employee from the performance of duties, such sick leave may be canceled and the employee's 
service terminated. 

(D) After all earned sick leave has been exhausted an employee may request, in cases of illness, 
to use other paid leave. The Employer may grant such requests and may require that the 
employee provide verification from an attending physician of such illness. Such requests shall not 
be unreasonably denied. 

Section 4. Restoration of Sick Leave Credit. Employees who have been separated from OUS 
service and return to a position in the bargaining unit within two (2) years shall have unused sick 
leave credits accrued during previous employment restored. 

Section 5. Transfer of Accruals. An employee shall have all of his/her accrued sick leave 
credits transferred when the employee is transferred to a different university/college. 

Section 6. Workers' Compensation Payment. Sick leave resulting from a condition incurred 
on the job and also covered by Workers’ Compensation, shall if elected to be used by the 
employee, be used to equal the difference between the Workers’ Compensation for lost time and 
the employee’s regular salary rate. In such instances, prorated charges will be made against 
accrued sick leave. Should an employee who has exhausted earned sick leave elect to use 
accrued leave during a period in which Workers’ Compensation is being received, the salary paid 
for such period shall be equal to the difference between the Workers’ Compensation for lost time 
and the employee’s regular salary rate. In such instances, prorated charges will be made against 
accrued leave. 

Section 7. Assumption of Sick Leave. Whenever a university/college assumes control over 
the functions of a local government agency within the State of Oregon, such university/college 
may assume the unused sick leave that was accrued by an employee of the local government 
agency during employment therewith, provided the employee accepts an appointment, without a 
break in service, to that university/college. Should the monthly sick leave accrual rate of the local 
government agency be greater than that of the university/college, the maximum amount of sick 
leave assumable by the university/college shall be computed on the basis of the following 
formula: 

Monthly Accrual Rate of University/college 

Monthly Accrual Rate of Local Agency 

X 

Sick Leave Balance of Local Agency 

Maximum Sick Leave Assumable 

= 

Should the monthly sick leave accrual rate of the local government agency be less than that of 
the university/college, the maximum amount of sick leave assumable by the university/college 
shall be the amount of unused sick leave accrued during employment with the local government 
agency. 

Section 8. Hardship Leave. These provisions shall apply for the purpose of allowing employees 
within the bargaining unit at each university/college to donate accrued vacation leaves for use by 
eligible university/college bargaining unit recipients as sick leave. Universities/colleges will allow 
employees to make irrevocable donations of accumulated vacation leave and compensatory time 
to a coworker. For purposes of this agreement, hardship leave donations will be administered 
under the following stipulations and the terms of this Agreement shall be strictly enforced with no 
exceptions. 

(A) The recipient and donor must be regular employees of the university/ college. 

(B) The Employer shall not assume any tax liabilities that would otherwise accrue to the 
employee. 

(C) Use of donated leave shall be consistent with those provisions found under Article 41, 
Section 2. 

(D) Applications for hardship leave shall be in writing and sent to the university/college’s Human 
Resource Unit and accompanied by the treating physician's written statement certifying that the 
illness or injury will continue for at least thirty (30) days following donee's projected exhausting 
of the accumulated leave. Donated leave may be used intermittently. 

(E) Donations shall be credited at the recipient's current regular hourly rate of pay. Donations 
shall be used to reimburse the university/college for such costs as are incurred for insurance 
contributions pursuant to Article 24 unless health insurance payments are mandated under the 
Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA). 

(F) Accumulated leave includes but is not limited to sick, vacation, personal, and compensatory 
leave accruals. 

(G) Employees otherwise eligible for or receiving workers' compensation, or on parental leave 
will not be considered eligible to receive donations under this agreement.  

 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 42 - BEREAVEMENT LEAVE 
 
Employees who have earned sick leave credits shall be eligible for sick leave, vacation, 
compensatory time, or leave without pay, at the option of the employee for any period of 
absence from employment to discharge the customary obligations arising from a death in the 
immediate family of the employee or the employee’s spouse. For purposes of this Article 
"immediate family" shall include the employee’s parent, wife, husband, child, brother, sister, 
grandmother, grandfather, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or another member of the immediate 
household. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 43 - HOLIDAYS 

Section 1. The following holidays shall be recognized and paid for at the regular straight time 
rate of pay: 

(A) New Year's Day on January 1; 

(B) Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday on the third Monday of January; 

(C) Memorial Day on the last Monday in May; 

(D) Independence Day on July 4; 

(E) Labor Day on the first Monday in September; 

(F) Veterans' Day on November 11; 

(G) Thanksgiving Day on the fourth Thursday in November; 

(H) the Friday after Thanksgiving; 

(I) Christmas Day on December 25; 

(J) every day appointed by the Governor as a holiday. 

Section 2. Special Day 

In addition to the holidays specified in this Article, full-time employees shall receive eight (8) 
hours of paid leave. Part-time, seasonal and job share employees shall receive a prorated share 
of eight (8) hours of paid leave at their regular straight time rate of pay based upon the same 
percentage or fraction of month, as they are normally scheduled to work. Paid leave granted in 
this section, shall be accrued by all employees employed as of December 24 of each year. 
Employees may request the option of using this paid leave on the workday before or after 
Christmas, the workday before or after New Year's Day or, when these days are not available to 
an employee, on another day of the employee's choice; provided that, approved usage of this 
leave shall be granted on a basis which shall preclude the closure of facilities. 

Section 3. Holiday Eligibility. 

All employees will receive up to eight (8) hours of holiday pay for recognized holidays in Section 
1 above, pursuant to (A), (B) and (C) below. Holiday pay shall be based on an eight (8) hour 
day. 

(A) Full-time employees shall receive eight (8) hours of holiday pay, provided they are in pay 
status at least one-half (1/2) of the last workday before the holiday and one-half (1/2) of the first 
workday after the holiday. 

(B) Part-time and hourly employees shall receive a prorated share of the eight (8) hours of 
holiday pay based on the same percentage, or fraction of month as they are normally scheduled 
to work. To be eligible for this pay, such employees must be in pay status at least one-half (1/2) 
of the last scheduled workday before the holiday and one-half (1/2) of the first scheduled 
workday after the holiday, provided such scheduled workdays occur within seven (7) calendar 
days before and after the holiday. 

(C) Seasonal part-time and seasonal full-time hourly employees will receive a prorated share of 
the eight (8) hours of holiday pay based on the number of hours actually worked as compared to 
the total number of possible work hours in the month or pay period. The holiday shall not count 
as part of the total possible work hours in the month or pay period or the total hours worked and 
shall be calculated as follows: 

total hours worked x holiday hours in the month 

total hours in month or pay period 

To be eligible for this pay, such employees must be in pay status at least one-half (1/2) of the 
last scheduled workday before the holiday and at least one-half (1/2) of the first scheduled 
workday after the holiday, provided such scheduled workdays occur within seven (7) calendar 
days before and after the holiday. 

Note: Nothing in this Article herein is intended to change the Employer's practice with respect to 
scheduling and closures permitted under this Agreement nor the granting of paid leave during 
such times. 

(D) Transfers to and from another university/college: 

(1) When compensable, non-workdays such as a holiday,sick leave or vacation leave which come 
between the separation date in the losing university/college unit and the subsequent hire date in 
the gaining university/college, the gaining university/college is liable for all of the compensable 
non-workdays. 

(2) The beginning date of employment in the gaining university/college must be the first 
compensable non-workday following separation from the losing university/college. 

Section 4. Work on a Holiday 

Employees required to work on days recognized as holidays which fall within their regular work 
schedules shall be entitled, in addition to their regular monthly salary, to compensatory time off 
or to be paid in cash as provided in Article 25-Overtime. Compensatory time off or cash paid for 
all time worked shall be at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2). The rate at which an employee 
shall be paid for working on a holiday shall not exceed the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) 
his/her straight time rate of pay. 

Section 5. Observance 

(A) When a holiday specified in Section 1 of this Article falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday 
shall be recognized as the holiday. When a holiday specified in Section 1 of this Article falls on a 
Sunday, the following Monday shall be recognized as the holiday. 

(B) However, the parties recognize that some positions must be staffed on each and every 
holiday, and that employees in these positions cannot be released from duty on those holidays. 
Paragraph (A) of this Section shall not apply to employees in these positions and the holiday shall 
be observed on the actual day specified in Section 1. Employees filling such positions will be 
notified in writing prior to hiring or when their work assignment is changed that they may have to 
work on certain holidays. 

Section 6. Leave Accounts 

An employee's leave account shall not be charged for a holiday which occurs during the use of 
earned vacation or earned sick leave. 

Section 7. Work Out-of-Class 

Employees assigned to work out-of-classification in accordance with Article 20-Differentials, shall 
receive holiday pay at the higher rate of pay, if the holiday falls during his/her work out-of-
classification assignment. 

Section 8. Holiday Scheduling 

(A) Work assignments for holidays shall be prepared in advance of the holiday and when work is 
available, employees shall be given an opportunity to request to either work or be off. Such 
requests shall be granted to the extent possible in keeping with the operating needs of the work 
unit. When all requests cannot be granted within a classification and within a work unit, they 
shall be granted on a rotating basis so that each employee's desires will be met as many times as 
is possible for each year. 

(B) Whenever practicable, employees shall be notified of holiday work schedules at least thirty 
(30) days in advance but in no instance shall there be less than fifteen (15) days advance notice 
of such work schedules except in situations over which the university/college has no control. 

(C) All employees will receive compensatory time off for all holiday time earned unless an 
employee elects to receive cash. If an employee wishes to receive cash rather than 
compensatory time off, he/she must request this method of compensation no later than three (3) 
days after notification of holiday work schedules. 

(D) (PSU). For those employees whose work shift spans midnight, the holiday shift is the one (1) 
starting on the calendar holiday.  

 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 44 - ELECTION DAYS 
 
Work and travel will be arranged to allow employees the opportunity to vote on their own time 
on recognized state and federal election days unless they are given sufficient notice to enable 
time to obtain an absentee ballot. 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 45 - LEAVES WITH PAY 

Section 1. An employee shall be granted leave with pay for service with a jury. The employee 
may keep any money paid by the court for serving on a jury. The university/college reserves the 
right to petition for removal of the employee from jury duty if, in the university/college’s 
judgment, the operating requirements of the university/college would be hampered. 

Section 2. Whenever possible, subject to university/college operating requirements, employees 
selected by proper authority for jury duty will be placed on a day shift, Monday through Friday, 
during the period they are obligated to jury duty. The university/college shall not suffer any 
penalty payments for the change in the work schedule of the employee on jury duty. 

Section 3. When any employee is not the plaintiff or defendant, he/she shall be granted leave 
with pay for appearance before a court, legislative committee or judicial or quasi-judicial body as 
a witness in response to a subpoena or other direction by proper authority for matters other than 
the employee's officially assigned duties. The employee may keep any money paid in connection 
with the appearance. 

Section 4. An employee shall be granted leave with pay for attendance in court in connection 
with an employee's officially assigned duties, including the time required going to court and 
returning to his/her headquarters. When the employee is granted leave with pay, he/she shall 
turn into the university/college any money received for such attendance during duty hours. 

Section 5. In the event a night or swing shift employee is called to appear under Sections 1, 2, 
3 or 4 above, he/she shall have release time the day of attendance. Time spent in attendance 
and in travel to and from his/her headquarters shall be deducted from the regular shift following 
the attendance with no loss of wages or benefits. 

Section 6. An employee who has served with the OUS, the State of Oregon, or the states’ 
counties, municipalities or other political subdivisions for six (6) months or more immediately 
preceding an application for military leave, and who is a member of the National Guard or of any 
reserve components of the armed forces of the United States is entitled to a leave of absence 
with pay for a period not exceeding fifteen (15) calendar days or eleven (11) workdays in any 
training year. If the training time for which the employee is called to active duty is no longer than 
fifteen (15) calendar days, the employee may be paid for the first fifteen (15) days only if such 
time is served for the purpose of discharging an obligation of annual active duty for training in 
the military reserve or National Guard. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 46 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY 

Section 1. Approved leaves of absence of up to one (1) year shall not be considered a break in 
service. During this time, employees shall continue to accrue seniority and to receive all 
protections under this Agreement. Where appropriate, partial benefits will be provided as 
specifically indicated in this Agreement. 

Section 2. An OUS employee voluntarily or involuntarily seeking military leave without pay to 
attend service school shall be entitled to such leave during a period of active duty training. 
Military leaves of absence without pay shall be granted in compliance with the Veterans' 
Reemployment Rights Law, Title 38, USC Chapter 43. 

Section 3. An employee who is a Union officer may be granted a leave of absence without pay 
of not less than six (6) months and no more than one (1) year to work for the Union, subject to 
the operational requirements of the university/college. Such requests shall be made by the Union. 
Both minimums as well as extensions of leaves shall be subject to mutual agreement. There shall 
be no more than two (2) officers on leave at any one time and no more than one (1) from any 
single university/college at any one time. 

Upon return to service, the employee shall be returned to the same class and the same work 
location as held when the leave was approved. Where return to the employee's former position 
can be reasonably accommodated, such return shall be made. 

Section 4. 

(A) An employee with three (3) years of service with the university/college may request, upon 
sixty (60) days advance written notice, and subject to the operating requirements of the 
university/college, shall be granted leave without pay for a period not to exceed four (4) months. 
The university/college shall respond to the employee's request within fifteen (15) workdays of its 
receipt. In the event of the university/college’s inability to grant such a request, the employee 
may choose to offer two (2) non-overlapping alternative four (4) month leave periods one (1) of 
which shall be granted unless reasonable efforts fail to result in finding a qualified replacement. 
An employee may not use this leave privilege more than once every three (3) years. Subject to 
the operating needs of the university/college, an additional leave of up to eight (8) months may 
be granted. 

(B) Time spent on leave without pay in excess of one (1) year shall not be considered as service 
in determining the employee's eligibility date for a salary increase unless such time has been 
spent on leave resulting from job-incurred disability or military leave as per Paragraph (C) of this 
Section. 

(C) Leaves of absence without pay shall be granted all regular employees who enter the military 
service of the United States. Such employees shall be returned to service in compliance with the 
Veterans' Reemployment Rights Law, Title 38, USC Chapter 43. 

(D) Peace Corps Leave. Leaves of absence without pay for at least two (2) years shall be 
granted automatically to all regular employees who serve in the Peace Corps as volunteers. Upon 
expiration of the leave, the employee shall have the right to be reinstated to the position held 
before the leave was granted and at the salary rates prevailing for such positions on the date of 
resumption of work without loss of seniority or other employment rights. Failure of the employee 
to report within ninety (90) days after termination of his/her service shall be deemed to be a 
resignation. 

(E) Any authorized leave of absence without pay does not constitute separation from service. 
Any employee who is absent without authorized leave for five (5) consecutive workdays will be 
deemed to have resigned and will be considered as a voluntary separation from service. When an 
employee has been absent without authorized leave for five (5) consecutive workdays, the 
university/college will send a letter (certified/return receipt requested) to the employee's address 
of record, notifying the employee that he/she is deemed to have resigned. The employee will be 
allowed five (5) workdays from the date of postmark to present extenuating circumstances. Such 
absence may be covered, however, by the university/college Appointing Authority by a 
subsequent grant of leave with or without pay, when extenuating circumstances are found to 
have existed. 

(F) An employee may request and shall be granted leave without pay for the time required to 
make an appearance as a plaintiff or defendant in a civil or criminal court proceeding that is not 
connected with the employee's officially assigned duties. The request must be made at least 
thirty (30) days in advance of the appearance, except in the case of traffic citations, notice will 
be given the first workday after receipt of the citation. 

 
 
 
ARTICLE 47 - PARENTAL LEAVE 
 
A parent shall be granted a leave of absence up to twelve (12) weeks to care for a new baby. 
Such leave can be less than twelve (12) weeks, if so requested by the employee, or at the 
discretion of management more than twelve (12) weeks, depending on the needs of the 
university/college. During the period of parental leave, the employee is entitled to use accrued 
vacation leave, compensatory time, leave without pay, or consistent with BOLI regulations, sick 
leave. NOTE: See Article 41-Sick Leave, for pregnancy related temporary disability. 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 48 - PRE-RETIREMENT COUNSELING LEAVE 

Section 1. If an employee is sixty (60) years of age or older or at least forty five (45) years old 
and within five (5) years of his/her chosen retirement date, he/she shall be granted up to three 
and one-half (3-1/2) days leave with pay to pursue bona fide pre-retirement counseling 
programs. However, an employee may draw up to four (4) hours of his/her three and one-half 
(3-1/2) days of pre-retirement counseling leave after completion of ten (10) years of service prior 
to reaching age sixty (60) or five (5) years from retirement. Employees shall request the use of 
leave provided in this Article at least five (5) days prior to the intended date of use. 

Section 2. Authorization for the use of pre-retirement counseling leave shall not be withheld 
unless the university/college determines that the use of such leave shall handicap the efficiency 
of the employee's work unit. 

Section 3. When the dates requested for pre-retirement leave cannot be granted for the above 
reason, the university/college shall offer the employee a choice from three (3) other sets of 
dates. The leave herein discussed may be used to investigate and assemble the employee's 
retirement program, including PERS, Social Security, insurance and other retirement income. 

ARTICLE 49 - SEARCH AND RESCUE 
 
An employee shall be allowed to take leave with pay to participate without pay and at no further 
cost to the university/college, in a search and rescue operation within Oregon at the request of 
any law enforcement agency, the Administrator of the Aeronautics Division, the United States 
Forest Service or any certified organization for Civil Defense for a period of no more than five (5) 
consecutive days for each operation. The employee, upon returning to duty at the 
university/college, will provide to the university/college documented evidence of participation in 
the search operation. 
 
 

ARTICLE 50 - VACATION LEAVE 

Section 1. Vacation Leave Accrual 

After having served in a bargaining unit position in OUS for six (6) full calendar months, 
employees shall be credited with the appropriate earned vacation leave and thereafter vacation 
leave shall be accumulated or prorated on the appropriate schedule as follows for (a) full-time 
employees; (b) seasonal employees and (c) part-time employees: 

After six months (minimum 1040 hours) (a) 
through 5th year; (b) 5th annual season; (c) 
60th month 

 
 
After (a) 5th year through 10th year; (b) 5th 
annual season through 10th annual season; 
(c) 61st month through 120th month 

 
 
After (a) 10th year through 15th year; (b) 
10th annual season through 15th annual 
season; (c) 121st month through 180th 
month 

 
 
After (a) 15th year through 20th year; (b) 
15th annual season through 20th annual 
season; (c) 181st month through 240th 
month 

 
 
After (a) 20th year; (b) 20th annual season; 
(c) 240th month 

  

  

  

  

  

12 workdays for each 12 full calendar 
months of service (8 hours per month) 

 
 
15 workdays for each 12 full calendar 
months of service (10 hours per month) 

 
 
18 workdays for each 12 full calendar 
months of service (12 hours per month) 

 
 
21 workdays for each 12 full calendar 
months of service (14 hours per month) 

 
 
24 workdays for each 12 full calendar 
months of service (16 hours per month) 

 
Part-Time Employees Computation A part-time employee shall accrue vacation leave and 
shall earn eligibility for additional vacation credits. Such leave shall be accrued on a pro rata basis 
per the same schedule as full-time employees. 

A part-time employee shall be eligible to take initial vacation leave after six (6) calendar months. 

Intermittent/Seasonal Employees Computation. Seasonal employees are entitled to use 
vacation credits (or to have them paid upon separation) when the seasonal employee has 
completed a combination of seasonal periods totaling six (6) full calendar months (a minimum of 
1,040 hours). In accumulating this initial six (6) calendar months of service, time worked prior to 
a break in service may be credited if the break does not exceed two (2) seasons. An employee 
may not be credited with more than one (1) season during a calendar year. 

Section 2. Vacation Leave for New or Separating Employees. 

(A) New employees who begin work in the middle of a month or pay period earn vacation credits 
on a prorated basis for the first partial month or pay period. 

Although new employees will earn vacation credits on a prorated basis during the first partial 
month or pay period of service, they are not entitled to use vacation credits (or be paid upon 
separation) until the employee has completed six (6) full calendar months or pay periods. 

(B) Separating employees who are eligible, will be paid for unused vacation leave accrued 
through the last day of service, based on each employee's work schedule. 

(C) Separating employees who are eligible, will be paid for accumulated vacation leave and 
compensatory time at the hourly rate equivalent to his/her base rate at the time of separation. 
An employee shall not be eligible for vacation pay-out upon separation unless the employee has 
completed six (6) full calendar months or the equivalent. 

Section 3. Compensation for use of accrued vacation shall be at the employee's prevailing 
straight time rate of pay. 

Section 4. In the event of termination or layoff any unused vacation shall be paid to the 
employee. 

Section 5. In the event of an employee's death, all monies due him/her for accumulated 
vacation and salary shall be paid as provided by law. 

Section 6. An employee who has lost work because of a job-related illness or injury shall not 
suffer a reduction in vacation credits. Vacation credits shall continue to be earned while an 
employee is using earned sick leave. 

Section 7. Service with a jury shall be considered time worked. 

Section 8. If an employee has a break in service and that break does not exceed two (2) years, 
he/she shall be given credit for the time worked prior to the break in service. 

Section 9. Time spent in actual service or on Peace Corps, military, educational or job-incurred 
disability leave without pay shall be considered as time in service for determining length of 
service for vacation accrual rate. 

Section 10. Vacation hours may accumulate to a maximum of 250 hours. 

Section 11. Authorization of Use. Upon transfer of an employee with six (6) full months of 
OUS service to a different university/college covered by the Agreement, the employee may elect 
to have a maximum of eighty (80) hours of accrued vacation credits transferred to the gaining 
university/college, except the gaining university/college may agree to accept a greater amount of 
accrued vacation credits. The employee shall be paid in cash for that portion of accrued vacation 
credits not transferred. 

Upon transfer of an employee with less than six (6) full months of service, all vacation credits 
accrued shall be transferred to the gaining university/college. 

Section 12. Should an employee who has exhausted earned sick leave elect to use vacation 
leave during a period in which Workers' Compensation is being received, the salary paid for such 
period shall be equal to the difference between the Workers' Compensation for lost time and the 
employee's regular salary rate. In such instances, prorated charges will be made against accrued 
vacation leave. 

Section 13. After all earned sick leave has been exhausted an employee may request, in cases 
of illness, to use earned vacation leave. The Employer may grant such requests and may require 
that the employee provide verification from an attending physician of such illness. Such leave 
shall not be unreasonably denied. 

Section 14. No employee may be placed on vacation leave and no accrued vacation time may 
be utilized without specific authorization of the employee except: 

(A) That employees shall have their vacation time paid in full when they take education leave 
without pay in excess of ninety (90) days; 

(B) That in any other leave of absence without pay that exceeds fifteen (15) days, the 
employees shall be required to use their accumulated vacation. Bargaining unit members may not 
be required to take vacation when leaving for military or reserve service as per Title 38, USC 
Chapter 43, or parental leave until after thirty (30) days; 

(C) As provided for set-off of damages or misappropriation of university/ college property or 
equipment on termination; 

Section 15. To avoid losing vacation the employee must request vacation leave. When such 
leave is impossible a cash payment of not more than forty (40) hours shall be made. In lieu of 
cash payment, the Employer shall schedule time off in excess of 250 hours within thirty (30) days 
prior to the date the vacation leave would reach 250 hours. 

Section 16. 

(A) Subject to the operating requirements of the university/college, an employee shall have 
his/her choice of vacation time. If two (2) or more employees request the same period of time 
and the matter cannot be resolved by agreement of the employees concerned, the employee 

having the greatest length of service with the university/college shall be granted the time if 
requested by the employee in writing; provided however, that an employee shall not be given 
this length of service consideration more than once in every two (2) years. Vacation requests 
must be submitted in writing not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the desired vacation starting 
time for vacations of five (5) days or more. For vacations of less than five (5) days, the written 
request must be submitted at least five (5) days prior to the desired starting time. The notice 
requirement does not preclude a supervisor granting a request on lesser notice. 

(B) Vacation requests shall be acted upon as soon as possible but in no case later than ten (10) 
days after the request is made, or seventy-five (75) days before departure whichever is the 
latest. An employee whose vacation schedule has been approved will notify his/her supervisor in 
writing in advance of the date(s) on which deposits on reservations will be forfeitable. After such 
date(s) (or earliest, if more than one), the scheduled vacation shall not be cancelled by the 
university/college except in the event of an emergency. (A cancellation under Paragraph (A) is 
not to be considered an action of the university/college.) The university/college shall reimburse 
the employee for all non-recoverable deposits caused by such emergency cancellation provided 
that the employee shows evidence of good faith efforts to recover such deposits. 

Section 17. An employee may request in January a cash-out of up to 40 hours of vacation 
leave. The request may only be made once within a twelve (12) month period. The employee 
must have a minimum of eighty (80) hours of accrued vacation leave remaining after the cash-
out.  

 
 

ARTICLE 51 LAYOFF 

Section 1. A layoff is defined as a separation from service for involuntary reasons other than 
resignation, not reflecting discredit on an employee. An employee shall be given written notice of 
layoff at least fifteen (15) calendar days before the effective date, stating the reasons for the 
layoff. 

Section 2. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article, designated individuals may be 
bypassed during layoff to retain adequate numbers of protected class employees, based upon the 
goals of the Affirmative Action Plan developed by the university/college, consistent with 
applicable law. 

Section 3. The layoff procedure shall occur in the following manner: 

(A) The university/college shall determine the specific positions to be vacated and employees in 
those positions shall be notified of layoff. The university/college shall notify in writing all affected 
employees of his/her seniority and his/her contractual bumping rights. The university/college 
shall notify the Union of the seniority of all employees in all affected positions in writing. In 
addition, the university/college shall provide the local Union President or a Union designated 
Steward with one (1) written copy of the seniority of employees in all affected positions in that 
geographic area. 

(B) Temporary employees working in the classification and administrative unit in which a layoff 
occurs shall be terminated prior to the layoff of trial service or regular employees. 

An initial trial service employee cannot displace any regular status employee. 

"Administrative Unit" is defined as the unit reporting to the lowest level Director or Department 
Head or equivalent level manager (for example: Registrar or Comptroller), Dean, Vice President, 
Assistant/Associate Vice President, Assistant/Associate or Vice Provost, Provost or President 
where a layoff occurs. 

(C) Employees shall be laid off and seniority calculated within a geographical area and within the 
following separate categories: 

(1) Permanent full-time positions; 

(2) Permanent part-time positions; 

(3) Seasonal full-and part-time positions; or 

(4) Academic year positions: Full-time academic year positions; or Part-time academic year 
positions; 

(5) Intermittent Employees. 

(D) An employee notified of a pending layoff shall select one (1) of the following options and 
communicate such choice in writing to the university/college within five (5) calendar days from 
the date the employee is notified in writing. However, this five (5) day notice will not be required 
if the employee is involved in a meeting to make such choice. 

(1) The employee may displace the employee in the university/college with the lowest seniority 
in the same classification for which he/she is qualified in the same geographical area in the 
university/college where the layoff occurs. 

(2) If no positions are accessible under option one (1), 

the employee may displace the employee in the university/college with the lowest seniority in the 
same geographic area in any classification with the same salary range in which the employee 
previously held regular status, including any predecessor classification; or, if this choice is not 
available to the employee, the employee may move into vacant positions in classifications with 
the same salary range that the university/college intends to fill in the same geographic area. 

(3) The employee may demote to the lowest seniority position in any classification for which 
he/she is qualified within the university/college and geographic area. Employees who elect to 
demote shall be placed on any geographic area layoff list of his/her choice within the 
university/college for the classification from which he/she demoted. 

(4) The employee may elect to be laid off. An employee who elects to be laid off shall be placed 
on any geographic area layoff list of his/her choice within the university/college for the 
classification from which he/she was laid off. 

The options provided by subsections 3(D), (1), (2), and (3) above shall apply to regular status 
(i.e., non-limited duration) employees displacing limited duration employees only when the 
limited duration positions are expected to continue for at least ninety (90) days beyond the time 
of layoff. 

(E) To be qualified for the options under Section 3(D), (1), (2), and (3), the employee must meet 
the minimum qualifications for the position's classification and must be capable of performing the 
specific requirements of the position within a reasonable period of time. A reasonable period of 
time is defined as approximately two (2) weeks. If an employee meets the minimum 
qualifications but is not capable of performing the specific requirements of the lowest seniority 
position, he/she may displace or demote to the next lowest seniority position in the classification, 
provided that the incumbent in the next lowest position has a lower seniority than the employee 
displacing or demoting. 

(F) When exercising an option under Section 3(D), (1), (2), and (3), an employee shall only be 
eligible to displace another employee with lower seniority. 

(G) Individuals filling a job-sharing position at the time of calculation of seniority shall be 
considered as two (2) distinct part-time employees. 

(H) If an employee is underfilling a position, the employee will be considered in the position 
classification for the purposes of this Article. 

(I) Any employee displaced by another employee exercising options under Section 3(D) (1) and 
(2)and (3) may also exercise any option available under Section 3(D). 

Section 4. For purposes of this Article, the term "university/college" does not include employees 
represented by other Unions. There will be no cross-bumping between unions. If, however, the 
university/college permits another union to cross-bump into OPEU, SEIU Local 503 positions, 
such rights shall be extended to OPEU, SEIU Local 503 bargaining unit members also. 

Section 5. Seniority Computation. Computation of seniority shall be as follows: 

(A) Continuous OUS Service. Credit one (1) point for each full month of unbroken service 
(except as a temporary appointee) in OUS service. 

(1) Active employees employed by OUS prior to July 1, 1996 shall have all unbroken state 
service recognized as OUS service. 

(2) Employees appointed to a bargaining unit position by initial hire or transfer, promotion, or 
demotion from another state agency on July 1, 1996 or later, shall have no recognized service or 
seniority at the time of hire; but shall begin accruing OUS seniority consistent with the provisions 
of this Article. 

(3) An employee hired by OUS on July 1, 1996 or later, who was previously employed by OUS 
and had a break in service of less than two (2) years prior to rehire by OUS, shall have all state 
service prior to the break in service recognized as OUS service. 

(B) Break in Service. A break in service is a separation or interruption of employment without 
pay of more than two (2) years. 

(C) Part-Time Computation. All part-time service shall be credited on a prorated basis. 

(D) Seniority Frozen. When a university/college intends to 

initiate a layoff, the university/college will notify the Union in writing that all seniority will be 
frozen from the date of notice for a period not to exceed three (3) months. However, during the 
period when seniority is frozen, the employee will continue to accumulate seniority for purposes 
of future computations. The three (3) month freeze may be extended by mutual written 
agreement of the Union and the university/college. 

(E) Tie Scores. If it is found that two (2) or more employees in the university/college in which 
the layoff is to be made have equal seniority, the order of layoff shall be in inverse order of the 
greatest length of continuous OUS service. If this does not break the tie, then the greatest length 
of continuous service in the university/college shall be used. If ties between employees still exist, 
the order of layoff shall be determined by the university/college in such manner as to conserve 
for the university/college the services of the most qualified employee. 

Section 6. Any trial service employee who is laid off or demoted in lieu of layoff shall not be 
placed on the university/college layoff list, but shall be restored to the applicant pool from which 
certification was made if the applicant pool is still active. Restoration to the applicant pool shall 
be for the remaining period of eligibility that existed at the time of appointment from the 
applicant pool. 

Section 7. Regular status seasonal employees laid off prior to the end of the season shall be 
placed in order of seniority on the university/college layoff list for seasonal reappointment and 
shall be limited so as to encompass only those seasonal employees in a classification who are 
employed at that specific geographical location and the university/college where the reduction 
occurs. The eligibility for such seasonal employees shall be canceled at the end of each season. 
At the completion of a season, all seasonal employees shall be terminated without regard to 
seniority. Regular status seasonal employees terminated at the end of the season shall be placed 
on the university/college layoff list in order of seniority and shall be recalled by geographical area 
the following season in order of seniority to the extent that work is available to be performed. 

Section 8. Any employee demoted in lieu of layoff may request at that time and shall be paid for 
all accrued compensatory time at the rate being earned prior to demotion in lieu of layoff. 

Section 9. University/College Layoff Lists. Names of regular employees of the 
university/college who have separated from the service of OUS in good standing by layoff or who 
have demoted in lieu of layoff shall be placed on layoff lists in seniority order established by the 
classification from which the employee was laid off or demoted in lieu of layoff and by 
geographical area. 

The employee shall designate in writing the geographic area layoff list(s) on which he/she wishes 
to be placed. 
 
An employee currently on a layoff list prior to the effective date of this Agreement, shall be 
placed on the geographic layoff list from which he/she was laid off. 

Section 10. Recall. Employees who are on a university/college layoff list shall be recalled by 
geographic area in seniority order beginning with the employee with the greatest seniority. 

If an employee is certified from a layoff list and is offered a position in the classification from 
which he/she demoted or was laid off, he/she shall have one (1) right of refusal. Upon a second 
refusal, however, the employee's name will be removed from the layoff list in all geographic 
areas. 

An employee appointed to a position from a layoff list shall be removed from all other layoff lists. 

If a temporary appointment is necessary in any geographic area and is expected to last longer 
than forty-five (45) days and there is a layoff list for that classification in the geographic area, 
employees on the layoff list shall first be offered the temporary appointment prior to hiring any 
other temporary. Not accepting a temporary job does not constitute a right of refusal under this 
Section. This shall only apply to employees separated from OUS service. Such employees shall be 
appointed as a temporary employee, at a salary to be determined by the Employer, and will not 
be eligible for any benefits covered under this Agreement. 

Section 11. Geographical Area. 

For purposes of Article 51-Layoff, the geographical area(s) shall be: 

OSU Radius of fifteen (15) miles from an employee's work station 

PSU Portland tri-county area; Salem 

UO Oregon Institute of Marine Biology, Charleston; Pine Mountain Observatory (near Bend); 
Portland (tri-county) area; balance of university. 

EOU La Grande; Portland, Ontario, Pendleton 

WOU University wide 

SOU University wide 

OIT Klamath Falls; Portland 

Section 12. When the university/college declares that a lack of funds will necessitate a layoff, 
the Union will meet, if requested by the university/college, to consider such alternatives to layoffs 
as: voluntary reductions in hours; voluntary paid leaves of absence; other voluntary programs 
and/or temporary interruptions of employment. Such alternatives shall be subject to mutual 
agreement by the Union and the university/college. In the absence of such mutual agreement, 
the university/college may implement layoff procedures consistent with the Collective Bargaining 
Agreement. 

 
 

ARTICLE 52 - SEASONAL AND INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES 

Section 1. Positions which occur, terminate and recur periodically and regularly, regardless of 
the duration thereof, shall be designated as seasonal positions. 

Section 2. Seasonal employees will complete trial service after having served a combination of 
seasonal periods totaling six (6) full calendar months, (a minimum of 1,040 hours). 

Section 3. A regular status seasonal employee shall be eligible for a salary increase upon 
returning to the same university/college in the same classification the next annual season 

regardless of the length of the period of time that has lapsed since the previous six month or 
annual increase granted. "Annual season" means a period of twelve (12) months, regardless of 
the number of seasons occurring during that period. 

Section 4. A seasonal employee shall be given notice at the time of hire of the length of the 
season and the anticipated end of the season. A seasonal employee shall be given at least ten 
(10) calendar days advance notice of the end of the season, except when conditions are beyond 
the control of the university/college. (See also Article 51, Section 7.) 

Section 5. Seasonal employees shall accrue all rights and benefits accrued by full-time 
employees during their employment season, except as otherwise modified by this Agreement. 

Section 6. Employees in seasonal positions who have reached regular status and who are not 
participating members of the Public Employees Retirement System shall receive a special 
differential in lieu of the state "pickup" of employee contributions to the Retirement System. Such 
special differential shall not increase pay rates in the Compensation Plan or be applicable to other 
seasonal, temporary, trial service or regular positions or employees. Such special differential shall 
terminate immediately prior to the first full pay period after the employee becomes a 
participating member of the Retirement System and becomes eligible for state "pickup" of 
employee contribution to the System. 

An employee shall receive a premium of six percent (6%) in addition to their regular rate of pay. 

Section 7. Only on call positions may be designated as intermittent positions in that work 
assigned to these positions is available on an irregularly fluctuating basis because of conditions 
beyond the control of the university/college Appointing Authority. 

Section 8. A person appointed to an intermittent position during the term of this Agreement 
shall be informed in writing at the time of appointment that the position has been designated as 
an intermittent position and that the employee may expect to work only when work is available. 
A person who is appointed to an intermittent position may be scheduled for work at the 
discretion of the supervisor when the workload for the position so justifies without any penalty 
pay provision for short notice. 

Section 9. The unscheduling of an employee appointed to an intermittent position shall not be 
considered a layoff. Whenever possible, an intermittent employee shall be given ten (10) 
calendar days notice of scheduling and unscheduling of work. When such notice cannot be given, 
such employees may be unscheduled without advance notice. The university/college shall not use 
unscheduling of work as a method of unofficially disciplining or discharging intermittent 
employees. 

Section 10. Intermittent employees will be scheduled and unscheduled for work in seniority 
order by work unit. 

Section 11. Except as specifically modified above, intermittent employees shall have all the 
rights and privileges of seasonal employees. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 53 - ACADEMIC YEAR POSITIONS 

Section 1. University/college Appointing Authorities may designate positions involving teaching 
or other school activity as academic year positions. To the extent practicable, the employment 
term of such positions will conform generally to the school or academic year. The designation of 
such positions does not preclude the extension of employment, either full or part-time, into the 
period between two (2) school or academic years. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the initial 
designation shall be only those positions customarily working during the academic year. 

Section 2. Employees in positions designated as academic year positions will be placed on leave 
without pay during the unextended period between school or academic years. Time spent on 
such leave without pay will constitute service for purposes of computing vacation accrual rate, 
anniversary dates, seniority and any other purpose where service time is computed except for 
trial service. 

Section 3. It is expected that an incumbent in an academic year position will be returned to the 
position after the leave without pay status. In the event that the position is not to be filled at the 
start of the new year and the employee is unable to be placed into a comparable position, a 
layoff will ensue. 

Section 4. An employee filling a position designated as an academic year position who is 
subsequently laid off will be placed on an academic year layoff list, full or part-time, consistent 
with the full or part-time status in the academic year position. 

Section 5. Where a position is being reduced in service from fiscal year (12 months) to 
academic year, the layoff provisions of Article 51 - Layoff will apply. In addition, an employee 
may opt to remain in the reduced service (academic year) position. The employee thus displaced 
from the fiscal year position will be placed on the full or part-time layoff list in the classification 
held before such displacement, consistent with the full or part-time status in the fiscal year 
position. 

Section 6. Existing practices related to use of seniority to determine extensions of academic 
year employment during summer breaks will continue. 

Section 7. The university/college agrees to consider interested academic year employees for 
temporary appointments during summer breaks according to the following procedure: 

(A) Prior to the end of Spring Term each year, the universities/colleges will send written notices 
to academic year employees to ask if they are interested in temporary positions in their own 
classifications, or lower classifications within the same class series, which may occur during 
summer break. 

(B) Interested employees will be asked to complete forms indicating what time period(s) they 
will be available, including planned vacation times, specific skills and abilities they have, and 
duration and classification of temporary jobs they would accept. 

(C) Employees who have asked to be considered for summer break temporary employment will 
be placed on lists by classification and geographic area. The order of names on these lists will be 
decided by seniority. 

(D) Before a temporary appointment is made to perform work that is performed during the 
school year by an academic year employee, the academic year employee will be offered an 
extension of his/her academic year position. In unusual circumstances, when temporary funding 
is available for summer work but budgeted FTE is not available, a temporary appointment may 
be made. In such circumstances, the academic year employee who performs the same work 
during the school year will be offered the temporary appointment. 

(E) When a temporary position which is expected to begin and end during the time between the 
end of Spring Term and the beginning of Fall Term is to be filled, available academic year 
employees who have asked and are eligible for summer temporary employment in the 
classification of the temporary position will be considered for appointment. 

(F) The highest ranking available employee on the academic year temporary summer 
employment list who is determined by the university/college Appointing Authority to be qualified 
will be offered the temporary appointment. It is understood that to be considered qualified, an 
employee must be able to meet the specific requirements of the temporary position. 
Requirements must be reasonably related to the job. Qualification evaluations will be based upon 
information provided by the employee and verified by the university/college Appointing Authority. 

(G) Employees will be expected to provide telephone numbers at which they can be reached 
within forty eight (48) hours during summer break. When a temporary summer position is to be 
filled, the department will attempt to contact qualified individuals by telephone at the number 
provided. If the highest ranking employee cannot be reached by telephone within a 48 hour 
period, he/she will be deemed unavailable and the next highest ranking qualified employee will 
be contacted. For temporary appointments of no more than one (1) week's duration, the 
department will attempt to contact the top three (3) qualified individuals by telephone and may 
appoint the first one reached. If none of the three (3) is reached, the department may appoint an 
outside applicant. 

(H) An academic year employee who has been placed in a temporary summer position will not 
be considered available for other temporary positions prior to the date specified as the ending 
date of his/her original temporary appointment. 

(I) Employees may decline one (1) offer of temporary summer employment. The name of an 
employee who declines a second offer will be removed from the academic year summer 
employment list for the year. 

(J) An employee appointed to a temporary summer position may be paid at or below the rate 
he/she is paid as an academic year employee. The rate of pay will not exceed the top step of the 
range for the classification of the temporary position. 

(K) It is understood that temporary employees, including academic year employees appointed to 
temporary summer positions, are not eligible to accrue vacation, sick leave or personal leave, and 
that they are not eligible to use such leave earned in their regular academic year positions. 

(L) It is understood that temporary employees, including academic year employees appointed to 
temporary summer positions, are not bargaining unit members for purposes of their temporary 
appointments. By accepting a temporary position, the employee shall suffer no loss of benefits 
he/she has as an academic year employee on leave without pay status and shall receive all the 
benefits of the temporary position. 

(M) Temporary positions to be filled by retired employees returning in 600 hour status to 
positions in the same classification and department will be exempt from the requirements of this 
Section. 

(N) It is understood that temporary appointments to be made to provide temporary 
replacements for unclassified employees are exempt from the requirements of this Section. It is 
further understood that temporary positions to be assigned work which is confidential under 
provisions of ORS 243.650 are exempt from the requirements of this Section. 

Section 8. For those employees not eligible for unemployment compensation, the Oregon 
University System (OUS) agrees to pay PEBB medical/dental insurance Employer contributions 
during the summer months and for the Christmas and Spring breaks for all academic year 
employees eligible for PEBB insurance coverage. OUS further agrees to take additional 
deductions, if required, from the employees' May paychecks. An employee may choose, however, 
not to have summer PEBB coverage by submitting written notice to this effect, to the payroll 
office prior to May 20 for that academic year. 

Section 9. Where payroll systems are currently so programmed, management at each campus 
shall allow academic year employees to individually opt, at the beginning of each academic year, 
to receive their pay over twelve (12) months rather than the actual academic year. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 54 - TEMPORARY INTERRUPTION OF EMPLOYMENT - LACK OF WORK 

Section 1. Any temporary interruption of employment because of lack of work or unexpected or 
unusual reasons which does not exceed fifteen (15) days, shall not be considered a layoff if, at 
termination of such conditions, employees are to be returned to employment. Such interruptions 
of employment shall be by work unit and recorded and reported as leave without pay. Under no 
circumstances shall this Article be used to remedy shortage of funds. 

Section 2. An employee who is affected by a temporary interruption of employment shall be 
allowed to use any form of paid leave including vacation, compensatory time off or personal 
leave provided the leave has been accrued. Such employee shall continue to accrue all benefits 
during this period. 

Section 3. For periods longer than fifteen (15) days, the university/college Appointing Authority 
shall follow the procedures described in Article 51-Layoff. In instances where temporary 
interruption of employment is an established practice that the university/college used in 
connection with cyclical or scheduled shortage of work for more than fifteen (15) days, such 
practice may continue; provided, however, that when such periods are for longer than fifteen 
(15) days, the university/college Appointing Authority shall use seniority of employees by 
classification in the affected work unit in determining employees to be placed on leave without 
pay. The university/college Appointing Authority will determine the work unit in each instance. If 
all such employees available for work cannot be returned to their positions, seniority shall be 
used to determine the order of recall. 

 
 

ARTICLE 55 - CHANGE IN CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATIONS 

Section 1. The Employer shall notify the Union of intended classification studies. 

Section 2. The Union may recommend classification studies be conducted by OUS, indicating the 
reasons for the need of such studies. OUS shall reply, setting a target date for completion of the 
study or explaining the reasons for a decision not to conduct such a study. 

Section 3. 

(A) Whenever a change in classification specifications or a new classification is proposed, it is 
agreed that OUS shall submit the classification specification changes to the Union to provide it an 
opportunity to review and comment on the specifications. If the changes of the specifications 
substantially revise the specifications, the parties shall negotiate the salary range for the newly 
revised specification. 

(B) Proposals for the salary rate and effective date for changes in classification specifications 
may be submitted throughout the term of the Agreement. If the parties are able to reach 
agreement, the new classification will be implemented. Any classes on which salary is not agreed 
can be submitted with overall proposals for a successor Agreement. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 56 - RECLASSIFICATION UPWARD - RECLASSIFICATION DOWNWARD 

Section 1. Reclassification must be based on findings that the purpose of the job is consistent 
with the concept of the proposed classification and that the class specification for the proposed 
classification more accurately depicts the overall assigned duties, authority, and responsibilities of 
the position. As used herein: 

(A) the purpose of the job shall be determined by the statement of purpose and assigned duties 
of the position description and other relevant evidence of duties assigned by the 
university/college; 

(B) the concept of the proposed classification shall be determined by the general description and 
distinguishing features of its class specification; and 

(C) the overall duties, authority and responsibilities of the position shall be determined by the 
position description and other relevant evidence of duties assigned by the university/college. 

Section 2. Reclassification Upward. 

(A) Reclassification upward is a change in classification of a position by raising it to a higher 
classification. Except within nine (9) months of a misallocation, a reclassification must be based 
on a finding that the duties, authority and/or responsibilities of a position have been enlarged, 
diminished or altered, but the knowledge, skills and abilities required are still essentially similar to 
those previously required. A misallocation occurs when: (1) a position is improperly allocated at 
the time it is created or, (2) an employee is placed in a position in which the duties and 
responsibilities do not accurately reflect the assigned classification. 

(B) Employees may request reclassification by submitting an OUS position description form and 
written explanation with all relevant evidence for the proposed reclassification to the 
university/college Appointing Authority. The university/college shall review the merits of the 
request. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of the reclassification request, the university/college 
shall notify the employee of its decision, unless otherwise mutually agreed in writing. The Union 
shall be entitled during the thirty (30) day review period to present further arguments in support 
of the request. Should the duties of the position support the proposed reclassification, the 
university/college shall make a determination whether to reclassify or remove the duties in a 
timely manner. 

(C) The effective date shall be the first of the month following the month in which the 
reclassification request was received by the university/college. The employee will receive a lump 
sum payment for the difference between the current salary rate, including work-out-of-class pay, 
if any, and the proposed salary rate, for the time period beginning the first of the month 
following the month in which the reclassification request was received by the university/college to 
the date of actual implementation. 

(D Rate of pay upon upward reclassification shall be the first step of the new salary range or one 
step, whichever is greater. In either case, a new salary review date will be established twelve 
(12) months thereafter. 

Should a reclassification upward result in overpayment of pay from the effective date of the 
reclassification to the day of actual implementation, the employee shall be held harmless and not 
be required to reimburse the Employer for the overpayment. 

(E) If a reclassification request is approved, but the duties are removed pursuant to Section 2, 
the employee will receive a lump sum payment for the difference between the current salary 
rate, including work-out-of-class pay, if any, and the proposed salary rate, for the time period 
beginning the first of the month following the month in which the reclassification request was 
received by the university/college to the date the duties were removed. 

Section 3. Reclassification Downward. 

(A) Reclassification downward is a change in the classification of a position by reducing it to a 
lower classification. 

(B) The university/college shall, sixty (60) days in advance of a reclassification downward of any 
position, notify the employee in writing of the action and the specific reasons. 

(C) If an employee is reclassified downward and his/her rate of pay is above the maximum of 
the new classification, his/her rate of pay will remain the same until a rate in the salary range of 
the new classification exceeds it, at which time the employee’s salary shall be adjusted to that 
step. 

(D) If the employee’s rate of pay is the same as a salary step in the new classification, the 
employee’s salary shall be maintained at the same rate in the lower range. 

(E) If the employee’s rate of pay is within the new salary range but not at a corresponding salary 
step, the employee’s salary shall be maintained at the current rate until the next eligibility date. 
At the employee’s next eligibility date, if qualified, the employee shall be granted a salary rate 
increase of one (1) full step within the new salary range plus that amount that his/her current 

salary rate is below the next higher rate in the salary range. This increase shall not exceed the 
highest step in the new salary range. 

(F) Employees who are reclassified downward for non-disciplinary reasons shall be given the 
same recall rights as employees demoted in lieu of layoff pursuant to Article 51 of this Agreement 
for reemployment to the classification from which they were reclassified downward. 

Section 4. Appeals 

(A) Filing 

Reclassification Upward. A decision of the university/college to deny a reclassification request 
may be appealed in writing by the Union to OUS Human Resources Division for further review 
within twenty (20) calendar days after receipt by the Union of the university/college’s decision. 
Such notice shall include the Position Description Form and written explanation previously 
submitted to the university/college Appointing Authority, as well as all relevant evidence of duties 
relied upon by the employee/Union at the university/college level. No new evidence will be 
presented by the employee/Union in this appeal process. 

Reclassification Downward. Within twenty (20) days from the date the employee receives 
notice that the university/college will reclassify his/her position downward, he/she may grieve 
this action by filing a grievance at the university/college President or designee level in the 
grievance procedure, providing written explanation and all relevant evidence demonstrating why 
the reclass is in conflict with, Section 1 of this Article. The university/college President or 
designee shall respond in writing in accordance with the appropriate time limits contained in 
Article 18 - Grievance Procedure. A decision of the university/college to deny a grievance under 
this Article may be appealed in writing by the Union to OUS for further review within twenty (20) 
calendar days after receipt by the Union of the university/college’s decision. Such notice shall 
include the written explanation and evidence previously submitted to the Appointing Authority. 
No new evidence will be presented by the employee/Union in this appeal process. 

(B) Arbitration A decision by the OUS to deny a reclassification request or to deny a grievance 
regarding a downward reclassification may be submitted by the Union to final and binding 
arbitration in accordance with Article 18 - Grievance Procedure, Section 5, Step 4 of this 
Agreement. The arbitrator shall allow the decision of the university/college to stand unless 
he/she concludes that the proposed classification more accurately depicts the overall assigned 
duties, authority, and responsibilities using the criteria specified in Section 1. 

Section 5. An incumbent employee who appealed his/her reclassification decision to final 
decision through an arbitration, shall not be eligible to either submit a new reclassification review 
request or to be reclassified downward by management, unless a change of assigned duties has 
occurred since that decision.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 57 - POSITION DESCRIPTIONS AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS 

Section 1. Position Descriptions Individual position descriptions shall be reduced to writing 
and delineate the duties currently assigned to an employee's position. A dated copy of the 

position description shall be given to the employee upon assuming the position and when the 
position description is amended. The individual position description shall be subject to at least an 
annual review with the employee. Nothing contained herein shall compromise the right or the 
responsibility of the university/college to assign work consistent with the classification 
specification. 

Section 2. Performance Evaluations Every employee shall receive a performance evaluation 
annually by the employee’s eligibility date. The employee's performance shall be evaluated by the 
immediate supervisor. The supervisor shall discuss the performance evaluation with the 
employee. 

The employee shall have the opportunity to provide his/her comments to be attached to the 
performance evaluation. The employee shall sign the evaluation and that signature shall only 
indicate that the employee has read the evaluation. A copy shall be provided the employee at this 
time. 

If there are any changes or recommendations to be made in the evaluation after the supervisor 
has discussed it with the employee, the evaluation shall be returned to the supervisor for 
discussion with the employee before these changes are made. The employee shall have the 
opportunity to comment on these changes. The employee shall sign the new evaluation and that 
signature shall only indicate that the employee has read the evaluation. A copy shall be provided 
the employee at this time. 

All written comments provided by the employee within sixty (60) days of the evaluation shall be 
attached to the performance evaluation. Performance evaluations are not grievable nor arbitrable 
under this Agreement nor shall they be used for purposes of disciplinary action, layoff and annual 
eligibility date performance pay increases, except in accordance with Article 69 - Information 
Technology Compensation Plan. 

If an employee receives less than a satisfactory evaluation, the Employer agrees to meet with the 
employee within thirty (30) days of the evaluation to review, in detail, the alleged deficiencies. 

Recognizing the value of a participatory performance evaluation process, supervisors are 
encouraged to provide an opportunity for employees to provide input to the annual evaluation 
prior to the supervisor completing the evaluation. 

Section 3. Seasonal Employees Seasonal employees still on trial service should refer to Article 
52 - Seasonal and Intermittent Employees, Sections 2 and 3 regarding salary increases. 

Section 4. Denial of Performance Increase The university/college shall give notification in 
writing of withholding of performance increases to all employees at least fifteen (15) days prior 
to the employee's eligibility date. When the performance increase is to be withheld, the reasons 
therefore shall be given in writing and will be subject to "just cause" standards. Any grievances 
for denial of annual performance pay increases will be processed under Article 17 - Discipline and 
Discharge. If an annual increase is not granted on the eligibility date, the employee's eligibility 
date is retained no longer than eleven (11) months beyond the eligibility date. If the increase is 
subsequently granted within eleven (11) months, it shall be effective on the first of the following 
month and shall not be retroactive. (For administration of performance increases, see Article 22 - 
Salary Administration). 

 

 
 

ARTICLE 58 - WORK SCHEDULES 

Section 1. A work schedule is defined as the time of day and the days of the week the employee 
is assigned to work. A regular work schedule is a work schedule with the same starting and 
stopping time on five (5) 8 hour days. An irregular work schedule is a work schedule with the 
same starting and stopping times on four (4) 10 hour days. A flexible work schedule is a work 
schedule which varies the number of hours worked on a daily basis, but not necessarily each day, 
or a work schedule in which starting and stopping times vary on a daily basis, but not necessarily 
each day, but which does not exceed forty (40) hours in a work week and is agreed upon in 
advance by the employee and the supervisor. 

Provided, however, nothing in this Section is intended to prohibit management from changing an 
employee's flexible work schedule without an employee's consent where such a change is needed 
in the regular course of business and where the employee has been initially hired by 
management, or initially placed on a flexible work schedule, with the express understanding that 
the person hired or the employee so placed on a flexible work schedule is expected to work a 
flexible work schedule as a condition of his/her employment. 

Section 2. Except as may be specifically stated in Sections 3-7 of this Article, the work week is 
defined as the fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours during seven (7) consecutive 24 
hour periods and the workday is the 24 hour period commencing at the start of the employee's 
assigned shift and shall remain fixed at that period for the whole of the work week, except for 
flexible work schedules. 

Section 3. The basic work week or work weeks currently established by the Employer shall 
remain fixed during the term of this Agreement regardless of an employee's scheduled hours of 
work. 

Section 4. The Employer agrees to schedule employees in a manner that would not result in 
split shifts or split weekends unless mutually agreed to between the university/college and the 
employee. Exceptions to split days off may occur in the Security, Student Health Service, Food 
Service and Boiler Plant Operations. Work schedules will be published as soon as possible after 
determining staffing needs. Changes in the work schedule, once established, will not be effected 
without payment of the penalties required by Article 30 - Penalty Pay, of this Agreement, except 
in instances where unforeseeable circumstances preclude such notice or where such schedule 
change is mutually agreed to by the employee and the university/college. 

OSU Only. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, the present practices of the university in 
its Agricultural Operations may be continued. Regularly scheduled employees shall receive at 
least ten (10) workdays advance notice of schedule changes occurring at the beginning of Fall, 
Winter and Spring Terms, including days off, and starting and quitting times. In no case will 
penalty payments be made unless advance notice has not been provided as specified in Article 
30. 

Section 5. Except in the Security Department, vacancies which are to be filled in two (2) or 
three (3) shift operations shall be filled on the basis of seniority of qualified employees within a 
work unit and within a job classification. Employees must express their preference for 
implementation of this Section. Except as limited by this Article, management shall not be 
precluded from exercising its rights under Article 9 - Management Rights of this Agreement. 

Section 6. Except for employees working four (4) 10 hour (4/10) workday schedules, employees 
shall receive a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes in every four (4) hours working time to be 
taken insofar as practicable in the middle of such working period. 

Employees working 4/10 hour workday schedules shall receive a rest period of twenty (20) 
minutes in every five (5) hours working time to be taken insofar as practicable in the middle of 
such working period. 

Section 7. Ordinarily, meal periods are not considered time worked. However, those employees 
who are not relieved from their work assignment and are required to remain in their work area 
when eating shall have such time counted as hours worked. 

Section 8. Whenever the job being performed or the material or equipment being used has 
caused an employee to become dirty, the employee shall be allowed a reasonable amount of 
time without loss of pay prior to any meal period or prior to the completion of their workday to 
clean themselves. Time for cleaning equipment shall be considered a part of the employee's 
workday. 

Section 9. An employee may apply in writing for authorization to work four ten (4/10) hour days 
or a flexible work schedule. The employee's application must address how the operating needs of 
the university/college could be met. The supervisor will give full consideration to the request and 
will deny the request only for reasons which are reasonably related to university/college 
operating needs. If the request is denied, the reason(s) will be given to the employee in writing.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 59 - SAFETY AND HEALTH 

Section 1. Proper safety devices and clothing shall be provided by the university/college for all 
employees engaged in work where such devices are necessary to meet the requirements of the 
Department of Consumer and Business Services and the Oregon Safe Employment Act (ORS 
654.001 to 654.295 and 654.991). Such equipment, where provided must be used. 

Section 2. 

(A) If an employee claims that an assigned job or vehicle is unsafe or might unduly endanger 
his/her health and for that reason refuses to do the job or use the vehicle, the employee shall 
immediately give specific reason(s) in writing to the supervisor. The supervisor shall request an 
immediate determination by the university/college Safety Representative, or if none is available, 
a Safety Representative of the Department of Consumer and Business Services as to whether the 
job or vehicle is safe or unsafe. 

(B) Pending determination provided for in this Section, the employee shall be given suitable work 
elsewhere. 

(C) Time lost by the employee as a result of any refusal to perform work on the grounds that it 
is unsafe or might unduly endanger his/her health shall not be paid by the university/college 
unless the employee's claim is upheld. 

Section 3. If in the conduct of official duties an employee is exposed to serious communicable 
diseases which would require immunization or testing, or if required by the university/college, the 
employee shall be provided immunization against or testing for such communicable disease 
without cost to the employee and without deduction from accrued sick leave. Where 
immunization or testing shall prevent or help prevent such disease from occurring, employees 
shall be granted accrued sick leave with pay for the time off from work required for the 
immunization or testing. An employee shall notify his/her supervisor immediately when he/she 
has knowledge of exposure to a communicable disease. 

Section 4. Each university/college will maintain a written procedure for the safe evacuation of 
buildings in the event of fire, explosion, threats involving explosive devices or other actual or 
potential disaster. The written procedure will provide for reasonable efforts to notify employees 
that a bomb threat has been received when the employees' work locations are in areas to which 
the threats have been specifically directed. If management has determined that such a bomb 
threat does not justify evacuation, an employee so notified, whose absence in management's 
opinion would not compromise safety, security or health, will be allowed to leave his/her work 
location on leave without pay status for no longer than the remainder of his/her scheduled work 
shift. The Union will be given the opportunity to provide information to management officials 
responsible for developing and maintaining notification/evacuation/search procedures and to 
discuss with such officials any perceived problems with the procedures. Following discussion 
between the Union and the university/college management, the procedure will be made known 
to all employees. 

Section 5. The university/college will, at least annually, advise employees of the name and 
telephone number of the university/college Safety Representative. Employees are encouraged to 
report any condition believed to be unsafe to the Safety Representative. After investigation, the 
reporting employee will be advised promptly of the results of the investigation and the corrective 
action taken. This does not preclude employees exercising their rights under the law or this 
Article. 

Section 6. The Employer shall have a written hazardous material communication program. This 
written program shall be available to employees and their representatives. Employees shall be 
informed of any toxic or hazardous materials in their workplace. 

Section 7. The Employer shall solicit and consider the Union's comments concerning the policies 
and procedures referred to in Section 6 of this Article.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 60 - COMMUNICATION/CONSULTATION COMMITTEES 

Section 1. To facilitate communication between the parties and to discuss greater productivity, 
increased efficiencies, and improved quality of work life, Joint Employee Relations 
Communication/Consultation Committees may be established at the universities/colleges by 
mutual agreement of the Union, the campus President or designee, and the Chancellor’s Office. 
The committees shall be on a meet-and-confer basis and shall not be construed as having the 
authority nor entitlement to negotiate. The committees shall have no power to contravene any 
provision of the Collective Bargaining Agreement nor to enter into any agreements binding on the 
parties to the Agreement or resolve issues or disputes surrounding the implementation of the 
Agreement. No discussion or review of any matter by the committees shall forfeit or affect the 

time frames related to the grievance procedure. Matters that should be resolved through the 
grievance and arbitration procedure shall be handled pursuant to that procedure. 

Section 2. The committee shall be composed of three (3) employee members appointed by the 
Union and three (3) members of management unless mutually agreed otherwise. 

Section 3. The new Joint Committee members will participate in a training program concerning 
such committees as provided by the Employment Relations Board. The committees shall meet 
when necessary, but not more than once each calendar quarter unless mutually agreed 
otherwise. A jointly prepared written agenda will be developed in advance of any meetings. 
Meetings will normally be two (2) hours in length, and will be held during normal business hours. 

Section 4. OUS employees appointed to the committees shall be in pay status during time spent 
in the committee meetings. Approved time spent in meetings by bargaining unit employees shall 
neither be charged to leave credit nor considered as overtime worked. 

Section 5. Staff representatives of OUS and the Union may render assistance to a committee in 
procedural and substantive issues as necessary to fulfill the objectives of this Article and may 
participate in such meetings with prior approval of the committee and shall not be considered 
regular or permanent members of the committee. 

Section 6. At the conclusion of each fiscal year, the parties may discuss the concept of 
labor/management committees and whether they should be continued or discontinued.  

 
 
 

ARTICLE 61 - JOB PROTECTION FOR ON-THE-JOB ILLNESS OR INJURY 

Section 1. The Employer and the Union agree to jointly work to reduce the incidence of on-the-
job injuries through health and safety programs and to reduce the unemployment and costs 
associated with on-the-job injuries through a combination of light-duty assignments, worksite 
modification programs and expanded return-to-work opportunities. 

Each university/college agrees to meet annually with select representatives from the Union on 
paid time to review the frequency and type of on-the-job injuries sustained in the 
university/college, status of worksite modification requests and to mutually develop training 
programs to reduce the incidence of work-related injuries. Ultimate decisions on training 
programs and costs are the prerogative of management. However, the Employer commits to 
provide existing resources to develop and staff such programs. 

Section 2. An employee who has sustained a compensable injury or illness shall be reinstated to 
his/her former employment or employment of the employee's choice within the 
university/college, which the university/college has determined is available and suitable upon 
demand for such reinstatement, provided that the employee is not disabled from performing the 
duties of such employment. If a position is not available and suitable within the 
university/college, the employee will be provided employment in another university/college, 
provided a vacant position exists where the returning worker meets the minimum qualifications 
and special requirements and the position is intended to be filled. 

Any worker, whether covered by this Agreement at the time of injury or not, will be eligible for 
placement into universities/colleges after all filling of vacancies provisions of this Agreement have 
been completed. Temporary reassignments across bargaining unit lines will not impact 
representation status. 

Section 3. Certification of a duly licensed physician that the physician approved the employee's 
return to his/her regular employment shall be prima facie evidence that the employee should be 
able to perform such duties. 

Section 4. Upon request of the university/college, an employee shall furnish a certificate as 
defined in Section 3, concerning his/her condition and expectation for a date of return to active 
employment. Any employee who has been released for return to active employment must 
immediately notify his/her supervisor, Human Resource officer or someone in management who 
has authority to act on this demand, of his/her status and that he/she is available to return to 
work. "Immediately" for purposes of this Section means no later than the second regular 
workday following the date specified on the certificate for the worker's return to work, providing 
that the worker has received a copy of the certificate on or prior to the date specified. 
Extenuating circumstances may extend the requirement for timely notice. An employee who fails 
to provide timely notice of his/her status shall be considered to have voluntarily terminated 
his/her employment. 

Employees released by their physician for light or limited duty are eligible for modified work 
consistent with the physician's certification of the worker's capabilities, the university/college’s 
ability to construct duties and availability of work. However, to be eligible for possible light duty 
or modified work, the employee must, where reasonable to do so, keep in regular contact with 
the Employer beginning with the day following the injury or illness. This assignment of work is 
temporary and is established through discussions with the physician as to the prognosis of when 
the employee will be able to return to his/her full range of duties. 

Since duties will be tailored based on a physician's statement of types of light or limited duties 
the injured employee can do, these duties may overlap various OUS classifications and may 
change the essential duties performed by other employees who will suffer no economic detriment 
due to these temporary work changes. All reasonable efforts will be made to avoid disruption to 
existing staff, for example, filling usable vacancies prior to altering the duties of incumbents. This 
is a temporary, modified return-to-work plan, to be reviewed every thirty (30) days and may be 
terminated when warranted by physicians' statements or light duty is no longer required or can 
no longer be made available. The return of injured workers shall be exempt from Article 33 - 
Filling of Vacancies. Concerning the injured worker, light duty assignments can be made without 
regard to the requirements of Articles 20 - Differential Pay, 55 - Change in Classification 
Specifications, 56 - Reclassification Upward - Reclassification Downward, 57 - Position 
Descriptions and Performance Evaluations and 58 - Work Schedules, except where specific work 
assignments have been designated for return of injured workers. 

Although duties of non-injured staff may be temporarily (not to exceed six (6) months) changed, 
such change may not give rise to a claim under the Articles listed above. However, days off and 
shifts of permanent full-time employees shall not be affected by this program. 

Section 5. The Employer will cooperate with the Workers' Compensation Program in the 
modification of work or work stations in order to accommodate employees permanently disabled 
as a result of a work-related injury or illness. 

Section 6. When an employee is injured on the job and suffers time loss greater than fifteen 
(15) days, the Employer shall refer the employee to appropriate sources for explanation of 
his/her rights and obligations related to medical, retirement and Workers' Compensation benefits. 
A letter to the employee's last address of record shall constitute proper referral. 

Section 7. All reassignments under this Article will be made in a manner to keep the injured 
employee at or near his/her official place of employment. No reassignments under this Article will 
require such employee to travel more than thirty five (35) miles or the distance of his/her regular 
commute, whichever is greater. 

 
 

ARTICLE 62 - VIDEO DISPLAY TERMINALS 

Section 1. Whenever any new piece of VDT equipment is purchased from outside of OUS, the 
university/college will follow the Department of Consumer and Business Services Guidelines on 
VDTs entitled "VDTs Guidelines for Use in the Workplace" as they pertain to that piece of 
equipment. When a university/college buys used equipment, then it will make every effort to 
comply with DCBS guidelines. If it is not able to do so, then any Union Steward, upon 
identification and submission of a VDT safety practice problem, may request and shall be 
scheduled to meet with the appropriate management representative to review the specific safety 
concerns. 

Glare screens will be provided upon request. The Employer will provide safe operation 
instructions when new equipment is installed. VDTs will be cleaned and inspected as needed to 
ensure proper operation. 

Section 2. The university/college will inform employees if it is using computer monitoring. Notice 
will include what is being monitored and its intended use. 

Section 3. The university/college will not use subliminal software. 

Section 4. The Employer and the Union agree that employees who are assigned full-time to 
continuously operate video display terminals (VDT) or cathode ray tubes (CRT) can be more 
productive if provided short periods of assignment to other duties throughout the work shift. 
Subject to operational needs, managers will arrange other work assignments so as to provide ten 
(10) minutes of relief for each hour worked at a VDT or CRT. 

Section 5. Upon request, employees who operate a VDT or CRT shall be provided available wrist 
rests for trial usage. If the wrist rest is determined to be beneficial a permanent wrist rest will be 
assigned to the station. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 63 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS SAILING COMPLEMENT (OSU) 

Section 1. Oregon State University will request funds from the appropriate Agency in advance of 
cruises planned for five (5) months or longer duration and will schedule transportation of each 

crew member for at least one (1) round trip to and from the ship's home port during each such 
planned 5 month or longer cruise. The University will request funds from the appropriate funding 
Agency in advance of cruises planned for ten (10) months or longer duration and will schedule 
transportation of each crew member for at least two (2) round trips to and from the ship's home 
port during each such planned 10 month or longer cruise. Additionally, round trip transportation 
to and from the ship's home port shall be provided to any crew member whose presence is 
required because of death, serious illness or injury in the employee's family (spouse, parent, child 
or other member of the employee's immediate household). The University may require a 
physician's verification of the necessity for the employee's presence. 

Section 2. If funds are provided pursuant to a request made under Section 1 of this Article, the 
University will schedule said transportation at the University's expense, provided: 

(A) The crew member returns to the ship after completion of the home port visit, unless he/she 
has given at least fifteen (15) days notice of voluntary resignation in advance of his/her arrival at 
the ship's home port. If the fifteen (15) day notice requirement is not met, and the employee 
voluntarily resigns and does not return to the ship, the cost of transportation from the ship to the 
ship's home port will be deducted from the employee's pay. 

(B) The crew member completes at least three (3) months duty on the cruise. 

(C) The crew member accepts the scheduled transportation. 

Section 3. Regardless of location, on a cruise of sixty (60) days or longer, an average of seventy 
two (72) hours in port for every thirty (30) days at sea will be scheduled. If the ship stays at sea 
for a period of twenty five (25) days or longer, upon its return to port at least seventy two (72) 
consecutive hours in port will be scheduled. If operating conditions prevent compliance to the 
schedule conditions as described in this Section, crew members will be compensated one (1) 
additional hour of pay for every three (3) hours of that portion of the seventy two (72) hours that 
the ship was not in port. This provision applies only to the R.V. Wecoma. 

Section 4. The work schedule of crew members in ports other than home port shall be adjusted 
by the University insofar as is possible to provide maximum time for use of accrued leave. In no 
case will an employee be required to use accrued shore leave or vacation, unless such time off 
has been mutually agreed to by the University and the employee. 

Section 5. In home port, a sailing complement employee who is scheduled for work and reports 
to work will be paid for a minimum of four (4) hours or his/her scheduled shift, whichever is 
lesser. However, unless a sailing complement employee is notified during the first two (2) hours 
of his/her work period that his/her shift is being curtailed he/she will be paid for the remainder of 
his/her scheduled shift. In home port, a sailing complement employee required to be present for 
sailing (but not scheduled to work) and reports as required, will be guaranteed a minimum of two 
(2) hours pay. Nothing herein contained is intended to deny the University the right to require 
the employee to work during the period for which he/she is being paid. The University agrees to 
carefully consider all factors involved in determining sailing times from home port and, whenever 
possible, to set those times between 0600 and 1630. 

Section 6. Changes in the established days of work while in home port will not be effected 
without one (1) day advance notice to the employee. The University will not require an employee 
to take off from his/her established days of work in home port in order to avoid payment of 
overtime during an arrival or departure week. 

Section 7. Crew members shall accrue paid shore leave of one (1) hour for each day served 
aboard the ship at sea during cruises when the ship is out of home port for one (1) day or more. 
When the ship is docked or anchored in a port other than its home port, shore leave will be 
earned by crew members who are on duty, but will not be earned by crew members who are 
taking vacation leave, compensatory time, shore leave or leave without pay. Crew members may 
utilize accrued shore leave under the same conditions as they utilize vacation leave or 
compensatory time. Up to one-half (1/2) of the shore leave earned during a calendar year may 
be paid in a lump sum at the employee's current pay rate, upon the employee's request, once 
during that calendar year. Shore leave balances in excess of 300 hours will be paid in cash at the 
employee's current pay rate at the end of each calendar year. When an employee terminates, 
unused shore leave will be paid in a lump sum at the employee's current pay rate. 

Section 8. The University agrees to reimburse employees for the cost of passports and visas for 
any cruise to a foreign port other than Canada or Mexico. 

Section 9. Those employees who are required to remain with the ship while in dry dock other 
than at home port, will be provided lodging and/or meals ashore, or reimbursed at the maximum 
rates at the option of the University, on those days or at those times when the ship's hull is being 
sandblasted or when other work is being performed on the vessel which makes the vessel 
uninhabitable. 

Section 10. The University will provide transportation to the ship's home port for employees 
who voluntarily resign when the ship is away from its home port, provided the employee provides 
advance written notice of resignation at least fourteen (14) days before the ship arrives at the 
port of call where he/she intends to leave the ship. When an employee voluntarily resigns 
without such advance notice, the university will not provide transportation to the ship's home 
port. 

Section 11. Crew members will not receive standby duty pay, split shift premium (overtime), 
call back compensation, shift change pay (reporting compensation) or show-up compensation 
while at sea. Nevertheless, crew members will be paid at the prescribed overtime rate for time 
worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any workday or forty (40) hours in any work week and for 
shift differential as provided elsewhere in this Agreement. 

Section 12. Provisions of Article 20 - Differential Pay, Section 7 do not apply to members of the 
sailing complement when the ship is at sea. When a crew member is qualified to perform the 
duties of a position in a higher classification, and is temporarily assigned to perform the duties of 
such a position at sea, the crew member shall be paid a differential for the period of temporary 
assignment which is equal to the difference between his/her regular salary rate and the first step 
of the pay range of the classification to which he/she is temporarily assigned, or a five percent 
(5%) differential, whichever is greater. 

Section 13 - Sea Pay. Crew members shall be paid a differential of ten percent (10%) for each 
day served aboard the ship at sea when the ship is out of home port on a cruise of one (1) day 
or more. Employees shall not be eligible for shift differential under Article 20 - Differential Pay 
while earning sea pay under this Article. 

 
 
 
ARTICLE 64 - EDUCATION, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 
 

Section 1. Each university/college may provide an educational assistance program 
acknowledging the worth of the professional development of the employees. Such programs may 
include but not be limited to: on-the-job training, education stipends and participation in 
professional conferences, institutes and workshops. Assistance to the employee may include 
registration or tuition fees, educational leave with pay, travel and per diem at prevailing rates. 
 
Section 2. Each university/college shall encourage its employees to avail themselves of 
educational opportunities presented by the institution for which they work. Subject to the 
operating requirements of the university/college, each university/college shall make reasonable 
efforts to provide release time so as to allow employees to attend classes of their choice. Such 
release time shall be charged against the employee's accrued and unused vacation leave, 
compensatory time off or leave without pay at the employee's option; PROVIDED, that the 
Employer may, in its discretion, grant such time off with pay without any charges to vacation or 
compensatory time accounts. 
 
When an employee has been granted release time to attend a course(s) which management 
determines is directly related to the employee's ability to perform duties of his/her current 
position, the university/college shall grant such time without charges against accrued leave. 
 
Section 3. Where employees are directed to attend educational courses or training sessions, 
they shall be released from other duties without loss of pay or other benefits and will be 
reimbursed for travel and per diem at prevailing rates and for tuition and material costs. Nothing 
in this Article will in any manner, reduce current practices of a university/college regarding 
payment of costs associated with job related licensure or certification. 
 
Section 4. An employee with five (5) years of service with the university/college may request 
upon ninety (90) days advance notice and, subject to the operating needs of the 
university/college, shall be granted an educational leave without pay not to exceed six (6) 
months. The university/college shall respond to the employee's request within thirty (30) days of 
its receipt. This leave may be extended for six (6) additional months subject to operating 
requirements of the university/college. In addition, educational leave without pay cannot be 
requested more often than once every five (5) years and cannot be used in conjunction with 
Article 46, Leaves of Absence Without Pay. The sole purpose of educational leave is to permit 
full-time enrollment in an accredited education institution. 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 65 - UNIFORMS, PROTECTIVE CLOTHING AND TOOLS 

Section 1. If an employee is required to wear a uniform, protective clothing or any type of 
protective device, such uniform, protective clothing or device shall be furnished or paid for by the 
university/college unless normally provided by employees according to industrial or professional 
practices. 

Section 2. The university/college will continue to furnish all tools currently provided. Where the 
work is of such a nature that the tools of a trade are provided by the employee according to 
established industrial, trade or professional practices, the university/college shall reimburse 
employees for the cost of replacing employee-owned normal tools of the trade when such tools 
are broken or worn out through ordinary usage in university/college-related work, provided 
applicable manufacturers' warranties will not cover replacement costs. The university/college also 
agrees to replace such tools stolen from the workplace, provided employees demonstrate they 

have taken reasonable precautions to safeguard tools against theft. Specialty tools and 
equipment which fall outside the normal tools of the trade shall be provided by the 
university/college. 

Section 3. Upon request, the university/college shall provide on a check-out basis, boots or 
overshoes to employees for use while stripping and waxing floors or working with asphalt. 
Coveralls will likewise be provided for use in cleaning boilers. 

Section 4. The university/college shall provide on a check-out basis, rain gear (hats, coats, 
pants, boots or overshoes) for all employees who as a regular and substantial part of their job 
work outside in inclement weather. This includes but is not limited to campus and grounds, labor 
crew, Security Department and mail delivery employees. 

Section 5. University/college furnished uniforms, protective clothing, tools and equipment will be 
maintained or replaced by the university/college when damaged by ordinary wear and tear. Such 
university/college furnished material remains the property of the university/college and the 
employee is liable for loss (not theft or burglary) or negligent damage to the full replacement or 
repair cost of the material. 

Section 6. When a key deposit in excess of one dollar ($1.00) per key is required, or the use of 
multiple keys is an integral part of a job, an employee may elect to sign an agreement in lieu of a 
deposit promising to return the key(s) upon demand or authorizing a deduction from his/her pay 
of an amount equal to the required deposit if the key(s) is not returned. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 66 - INCLEMENT CONDITIONS 

Section 1. When in the judgment of the university/college Appointing Authority, inclement 
weather or hazardous conditions require closure of or curtailment of work in offices and 
universities/colleges after an employee reports to work at the beginning of his/her assigned work 
shift, the employee shall be paid for the remainder of his/her work shift. 

Section 2. The university/college Appointing Authority shall notify employees prior to the 
beginning of their work shifts, not to report to work because of closure of facilities or curtailment 
of work due to inclement weather or hazardous conditions. In such cases, the university/college 
Appointing Authority will use announcements on local radio or television stations or recorded 
messages or individual telephone contacts to notify employees of the closure or work curtailment 
prior to their leaving home. The university/college Appointing Authority shall notify employees by 
October 1 of each year of the station(s) to be used in such announcements. 

Section 3. Employees who do not work pursuant to provisions of Section 2 of this Article shall 
be authorized to use accrued vacation, compensatory time, exchange time, personal leave, or to 
take leave without pay, to cover work time missed due to closure or work curtailment. Employees 
required to work during periods of closure or curtailment described in Section 2 shall be paid at 
the rate of time-and-one-half for all hours worked during such periods. There shall be no 
pyramiding of over-time for work performed under this Article and Article 25 - Overtime. 

Section 4. When inclement conditions exist and no closure or curtailment occurs, employees 
who make every reasonable effort to report to work as scheduled will be allowed to make up 
missed time provided they report within two (2) hours of the scheduled starting time provided 
such make-up work is available and such time can be scheduled so as not to encumber overtime 
under FLSA. Make-up provisions will not be subject to Article 25-Overtime. Any make-up time 
must be performed within sixty (60) days of the missed time and at rates of pay that would have 
prevailed except for the inclement weather. 

Section 5. If appropriate law enforcement authorities determine that road travel is extremely 
hazardous and because of this the employee does not report for work, the employee shall be 
authorized the optional use of accrued vacation time, other accrued compensatory time or leave 
without pay. 

 
 
 

ARTICLE 67 -TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE/RETRAINING 

Section 1. Definition. 

Technological change is defined as a change in equipment, particularly of an electronic or 
mechanized nature, which may have the result of reducing the number of bargaining unit 
employees, reducing the required work hours of bargaining unit employees and/or altering skill 
requirements for job positions within the bargaining unit. 

Section 2. The parties support technological advancement, recognizing that it is necessary to 
ensure an expanding economy. Similarly, the parties recognize that job displacement, 
occupational shifts and employee working conditions may be adversely affected by the 
introduction of new technology. To reconcile these conflicting realities, the parties agree to the 
following: 

(A) OUS and/or the university/college agrees to give the Union sufficient advance notice of 
anticipated technological changes which will have a substantial impact on the manner in which 
job duties of a significant number of employees are performed so that it can review such changes 
and evaluate the impact on bargaining unit members. With this notice, OUS and/or the 
university/college shall inform the Union of whether and to what extent it anticipates that the 
changes will displace employees, cause a reduction in work hours, cause a change in skill 
requirements or result in the fragmentation of existing jobs. 

(B) An ad hoc Union/Management Technological Change Committee, composed of three (3) 
persons from the Union and three (3) persons from management, shall be established for the 
purposes of reviewing the technological change and its impact on the working conditions of 
bargaining unit members. 

(C) OUS and/or the university/college agrees to meet with the Union to discuss the Committee's 
findings and recommendations and it agrees to make every good faith effort to reduce the 
detrimental effects of technological change on bargaining unit members. 

(D) Should a regular status employee become displaced, the university/college shall offer sub (1) 
or (2) under the following conditions: 

(1) Subject to funding, university/college needs, employee interests and ability and scheduling, 
the university/college will provide retraining. 

(2) Should a regular status employee become displaced as a result of technological change, the 
university/college shall make a reasonable effort to place the affected employee into another 
position in the university/college or other universities/colleges within OUS.  

 
 
 
ARTICLE 68 - PROFESSIONAL RECOGNITION 
 
At the request of an employee who was the primary author of a manual, manuscript or other 
similar major publication for which he/she would like to receive recognition, the university/college 
agrees to provide appropriate individual recognition on the manual, manuscript or other similar 
major publication. 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE 69 - INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPENSATION PLAN 

Classifications for Information Technology positions will be implemented November 1, 1999. 
Upon implementation, current employees will receive a 5% increase to their base pay or the base 
level of the new classification/zone, whichever is greater. 

Section 1. Merit Pay Program 

Base pay increases (BPI) will be based on performance and shall be given no less frequently than 
annually. 

Performance 

Rating  

At or Below 

Above 

Control Point *  

Control Point  

Outstanding 
 
  

Consistently 
 
exceeds 
 
standards 

Meets 
 
standards 

BPI 7.25% 

BPI 6.00% 

BPI 4% 

BPI 3% 

BPI 4.75% 

BPI 2% 

Deficient 

BPI 0-2% 

  

*Control Point is set at 38% above the low rate of the competency zone. 

See Appendix F for compensation schedules. 

Section 2. Cash Award Program 

Supervisors may provide cash awards up to 7.25%, at their discretion at any time(s) during the 
performance cycle, to recognize completion of projects, achievements of higher competency 
levels, or other significant events worthy of monetary recognition. 

This cash award provision shall continue in effect through October 31, 2001, and shall continue 
after that date if the parties mutually agree. If either party elects to discontinue cash awards, the 
party shall notify the other party no later than September 15, 2001, and the parties shall meet to 
negotiate an alternate provision. The same process shall be repeated in 2003 and every two 
years thereafter until the parties mutually agree to continue the cash awards provision on an 
ongoing basis. 

Section 3. Appeal Process 

A. Appeals for transition/initial placement into the new classification system: 

(1) Filing. The university/college Human Resources Division will reclassify the information 
technology positions in the 1400 classification series, and any other classifications deemed 
appropriate, to the new Information Technology classifications and competency zones, and notify 
employees of the designation by November 1, 1999. Within 30 days from the date the employee 
receives notice of the classification decision, the employee may appeal the classification and/or 
competency zone decision by written notice to the university/college Human Resource Division. 
Such notice shall include the classification and/or competency zone the employee believes is 
more appropriate and an explanation or rationale for the appeal. The university/college shall 
respond in writing within 60 days. 

No new evidence will be presented by the employee/union after step (1). 

(2) Second Level Review. If the employee is dissatisfied with the appeal decision of the 
university/college, the employee may advance the appeal (within 30 days) to the OUS Human 
Resources Division for an independent review. The OUS Human Resource Division will provide a 
written response within 60 days. 

(3) Dispute Resolution. The Union may appeal the second level review within 30 days to a 
mutually selected arbitrator(s) who will agree to process the case(s) in an expedited manner. The 
arbitrator will be selected and processed in accordance with Article 18 - Grievance Procedure, 
Section 6. 

(4) Employees in other positions may request a reclassification to the new IT series, under the 
existing process outlined in Article 56 - Reclassification Upward - Reclassification Downward. 
Such employees will be treated as a "misallocation" under Article 56. 

B. Classification appeals after implementation shall be handled in accordance with Article 56 - 
Reclassification Upward - Reclassification Downward. 

C. Movement to a lower competency zone for reasons related to poor performance, shall be 
subject to provisions in Article 17 - Discipline and Discharge. 

D. Movement to a lower competency zone for reasons unrelated to poor performance, shall be 
subject to provisions in Article 18 - Grievance and Arbitration. 

E. Performance Evaluation Review (Non-disciplinary). After implementation, employees 
who receive an evaluation rated "Meets Standards" or higher may request an independent review 
by a representative from the university/college Human Resources Department. 

F. Competency Level Review. If an employee who is above the control point for their 
classification and competency level requests to be moved to a higher competency level and such 
request is denied, the issue of the employee's competency level shall be subject to the provisions 
in Article 18 - Grievance and Arbitration. However, if such a grievance is appealed through 
arbitration the employee may not grieve their competency level again until two (2) years after 
the date the first grievance was filed, unless the employee changes classifications. 

 
 
 

OUS/OPEU 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULE 

DECEMBER 1, 1999 

SALARY RANGE  LOW  CONTROL POINT HIGH 
21I-1  
2487  2684 
21I-2  
3217  3286 
26I-1  
2672  2885 
26I-2  
3457  4145 
28I-1  
2491  2689 
28I-2  
3222  3943 
28I-3  
4197  4495 
32I-1  
3068  3316 
32I-2  
3972  4866 
32I-3  
5178  5460 

1802 
2331 
1936 
2505 
1805 
2335 
3041 
2223 
2878 
3752 

2441 
3162 
4123 

3369  3643 
4364  5348 
5690  5961 

34I-1  
34I-2  
34I-3  
Last Updated on 12/21/99  
By Chancellor's Office  
 
 
 

OUS/OPEU 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULE 

JANUARY 1, 2001 

1847 
2389 
1984 
2568 
1850 
2393 
3117 
2279 
2950 
3846 
2502 
3241 
4226 

SALARY RANGE  LOW  CONTROL POINT HIGH 
21I-1  
2549  2751 
21I-2  
3297  3368 
26I-1  
2738  2957 
26I-2  
3544  4249 
28I-1  
2553  2756 
28I-2  
3302  4042 
28I-3  
4301  4607 
32I-1  
3145  3399 
32I-2  
4071  4988 
32I-3  
5307  5597 
34I-1  
3453  3734 
34I-2  
4473  5482 
34I-3  
5832  6110 
Last Updated on 12/21/99  
By Chancellor's Office  
 
 
 
 

OUS/OPEU 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULE 

November 1, 1999 

1764 
2293 
1898 
2467 
1767 
2297 
3003 
2185 
2840 
3714 
2403 
3124 
4085 

SALARY RANGE  LOW  CONTROL POINT HIGH 
21I-1  
2434  2646 
21I-2  
3164  3248 
26I-1  
2619  2847 
26I-2  
3404  4107 
28I-1  
2438  2651 
28I-2  
3170  3905 
28I-3  
4144  4457 
32I-1  
3015  3278 
32I-2  
3919  4828 
32I-3  
5125  5422 
34I-1  
3316  3605 
34I-2  
4311  5310 
34I-3  
5637  5923 
Last Updated on 4/7/00  
By Chancellor's Office  
 
 
 
 
LETTER OF AGREEMENT 
 
ARTICLE 25 - OVERTIME 
 
The parties agree that employees who have compensatory time accumulations in excess of one 
hundred twenty (120) hours as of July 1, 1989 will be permitted to maintain their present 
accumulated amount in spite of the limitation in Article 25. However, as individual accumulations 
drop below their July 1, 1989 level, this amount shall establish a new lower ceiling. 
 
This "grandfathering" provision shall continue until these employees leave their current 
university/college. 

ARTICLE 38 - JOB SHARING 

This Letter of Agreement is entered into between the Oregon University System (OUS) and the 
Oregon Public Employees Union (OPEU, SEIU Local 503). It sets forth the provisions that 
grandfather the insurance provisions for the current job share employees. The parties agree to 
the following: 

(1) Job sharing employees as of October 1, 1997 shall be entitled to share the full employer-paid 
insurance benefits for one (1) full-time position based upon a prorate of regular hours scheduled 
per week or per month, whichever is appropriate. In any event, the Employer contribution for 
insurance benefits in a job share position is limited to the amount authorized for one (1) full-time 
employee. Each job share employee shall have the right to pay the difference between the 
employer-paid insurance benefits and the full premium amount through payroll deduction. 

(2) The Employer shall provide a written explanation of the insurance benefits for which job 
share employees are entitled.  

 

ARTICLE 41 - FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA) 

This Letter of Agreement is entered into by OUS and the Oregon Public Employees Union (OPEU, 
SEIU Local 503). 

The parties acknowledge applicability of the federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) to 
employees represented by the Union. The parties further agree to the following provision in the 
administration of the FMLA. 

(1) Employees may use sick leave or other forms of paid leave to which they are entitled under 
the collective bargaining agreement in conjunction with the FMLA. 

(2) The "FMLA year" is considered to be a twelve (12) month period rolling backward for each 
employee. 

(3) To be eligible for leave, an employee must have worked for the Employer for at least twelve 
(12) months and worked 1,250 hours during the 12-month period preceding the commencement 
of the leave. 

(4) During the period of FMLA leave, the employer's insurance contribution toward the health 
plan will continue at the level and under the conditions coverage would have been provided if the 
employee had continued to be employed continuously during the leave. 

(5) The Employer's determination of FMLA eligibility may require medical certification that the 
leave is needed due to an FMLA-qualifying condition of the employee or that of a member of the 
family. At the agency's expense, a second opinion may be requested.  

 

ARTICLE 69 - IT DESIGN COMMITTEE/EVALUATION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
COMPENSATION PLAN 

This Letter of Agreement is entered into by the Oregon University System (OUS) and the Oregon 
Public Employees Union (the Union), SEIU Local 503. 

1. A Joint Evaluation Committee will convene at least once per year to evaluate 
the merit pay and cash award programs. 

2. The Committee will review the history of base pay increases and cash awards, 
including the rationale/purpose for the cash award. 

3. The Committee will attempt to determine if the compensation programs have 
had a positive effect on recruitment/retention. 

4. The Committee will produce a report for OUS and the Union that may include 
recommendations for modifications to the programs. 

5. Designated members of the Design Committee will be granted leave with pay 
to attend Design Committee meetings, including time required to travel to and 
from the meeting. Management will not incur costs for Union members for travel, 
per diem, overtime, or other benefits beyond that which the employee would 
have received had the employee not attended the Committee meeting. 

 

PSU/SCF CHILD WELFARE PARTNERSHIP 

This Letter of Agreement is entered into by the Oregon Public Employees Union (OPEU), Service 
Employees Union Local 503, AFL-CIO, and the Oregon University System for the State Office for 
Services to Children and Families (SCF) and Portland State University (PSU). 

Incumbents of the below listed SCF positions will be PSU employees and subject to the provisions 
of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Oregon Public Employees Union, SEIU 503 
and the Oregon University System. This Agreement will also cover additional training unit 
positions established by PSU and funded through contract with the SCF. 

Given the history and nature of these positions, and the unique relationship between these 
employees and the State Office for Services to Children and Families, the following provisions will 
apply to these positions: 

Article 22 - Salary Administration 

With reference to Article 22, Section 1(c), SCF employees hired into PSU positions will start at the 
salary step within the classifications referenced in this Agreement which most closely matches the 
salary rate of their most recent SCF position except in the case of promotion or demotion. In the 
case of demotion or promotion, Article 22, Sections 5 and 6 shall apply to SCF employees who 
are hired into Child Welfare Partnership positions by PSU. 

Article 32 - Overtime 

Compensatory time earned by employees while at SCF is not transferable. It must be paid in cash 
upon termination of employment from SCF. 

Article 33 - Filling of Vacancies 

PSU will consider SCF employees when filling vacant positions in the Child Welfare partnership 
program consistent with Article 33. 

Article 37 - Limited Duration Appointment 

If any of these positions are designated as limited duration, Section 2(b) and Section 3(d) of this 
Article will be modified so that layoff rights revert to the prior classification, if any, held in SCF 
rather than PSU. 

Article 39 - Voluntary Demotion 

An incumbent in one of these positions who requests voluntary demotion will be considered by 
such demotion only within the pool of these positions or to SCF. Likewise, other PSU employees 
requesting voluntary demotion will not be considered for demotion into one of these positions. 

Article 41 - Sick Leave 

Without regard to Section 5 of this Article, employees of SCF hired into Child Welfare Partnership 
positions will be permitted to transfer all accrued sick leave to PSU. 

Article 50 - Vacation Leave 

Without regard to Section 11 of this Article, employees of SCF hired into Child Welfare 
partnership positions at PSU per Article 33 will be permitted to transfer up to the maximum 
accrual amount allowed by this Article to PSU from SCF and will retain the vacation accrual rate 
referenced in this Agreement which is most comparable to the rate of their immediately previous 
position in SCF. 

Article 51 - Layoff 

Incumbents of these positions receiving notice of layoff will have displacement and layoff list 
rights only within the pool of these positions or to SCF. Likewise, other PSU employees receiving 
notice of layoff will not be eligible to displace, demote, or to be returned from the PSU layoff list 
into one of these positions. 

These positions will be considered to be working in one office with a statewide geographic area. 
Any subsequent displacement will be in accordance with geographic areas as defined by SCF 
layoff provisions. 

Classification Class # SR Eff Date PT/FT 

Program Technician 2 C0813 27 7/1/94 FT 

Training Specialist C1332 26 7/1/94 FT 

Training Specialist C1332 26 7/1/94 FT 

Training Specialist C1332 26 7/1/94 FT 

Training Specialist C1332 26 7/1/94 FT 

Training Specialist C1332 26 7/1/94 FT 

Training Specialist C1332 26 7/1/94 FT 

Social Service Specialist 2 C6613 26 7/1/94 FT 

Social Service Specialist 2 C6613 26 7/1/94 FT 

Social Service Specialist 2 C6613 26 7/1/94 FT 

Duration 

This Letter of Agreement will continue to apply as long as the positions remain in the Child 
Welfare Partnership or until modified by the Parties. 

Note: There is a companion Letter of Agreement contained in the DAS/SCF - OPEU Agreement 
regarding entitlements should an incumbent return to SCF. 

 

RE: DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING POLICY FOR OSU SHIP OPERATIONS PERSONNEL 

This Letter of Agreement is entered into between the Oregon Public Employees Union, SEIU Local 
503 and the OUS on behalf of Oregon State University. The parties hereby agree to the drug and 
alcohol testing policy, dated November 8, 1991, as applicable to represented marine employees 
of Oregon State University’s College of Oceanography. 

The parties acknowledge that the drug and alcohol testing requirements contained in this policy 
have been established as the result of federal mandates. If the federal regulation (46 CFR Parts 
4,5,and 16) of the Coast Guard regulations affecting this policy are changed, either party may 
initiate bargaining of the sections of the policy affected by the regulation changes. 

This Letter of Agreement shall remain in effect until June 30, 2003.  

 

Human Resources Information System 

The following Letter of Agreement consolidates the Letters of Agreement between the parties 
dated 5/13/98 and 6/25/98 regarding implementation of the HRIS system into a single Letter of 
Agreement and deletes obsolete language.  

Section 1. Twelve-Month Pay Option for Academic Year Employees 

In view of the payroll system changes brought about by Banner, HRIS, Article 53, Academic Year 
Positions, Section 9, will no longer be applicable. If the Banner product later provides sufficient 
capabilities, Article 53, Section 9 will be reinstated. 

Section 2. Benefit Pro-Ration for Part-Time Employees 

Benefits for part-time employees under the following contract provisions will be pro-rated based 
on a straight monthly pro-ration of time worked. "Time worked" includes actual time worked and 
any form of paid leave and/or compensatory time that the employee utilizes during the month. 

Article 41, Sick Leave, Section 1(C) 

Article 43, Holidays, Section 3 

Article 50, Vacation, Sections 1 and 2 

Section 3. Changes of Reporting Period for Part-Time Employees 

All part-time employees working at university/colleges that convert from a "l through 31" time 
reporting period will be subject to the following provisions. 

a. The paycheck for the month during which the transition occurs (transition month) will be for 
the period of the lst through the 15th of that month. 

b. Affected employees will receive at least one month's notice of the transition. 

c. Such general notice shall be jointly authorized and signed by OPEU SEIU Local 503 and OUS. 

d. Accompanying such notice will be an individualized notice from the university/college detailing 
specific dollar amounts applicable to the employee. 

e. Affected employee will be given the option of a draw. If they so elect, that amount will be 
equal to their regular month's pay, less the actual pay for the partial month reporting period, less 
40% for mandated withholdings. In the event that the employee does not have a forecasted or 
regular month's pay, the basis for the advance will be the position's FTE multiplied by the 
monthly salary for the employee's classification pay range and step. 

f. If an employee elects to take the draw, the employee must choose one of the following 
payback options: 

(1) All repaid on the last day of the month following the transition month; or 

(2) Employee's choice of equal monthly payments for either 8, 12, or 24 months, 
commencing on the last day of the second month after the transition month. 

g. For all payback options, an employee may exchange, on a one- time initial election, all or part 
of vacation and/or compensatory time to fully or partially offset the employee draw. Computation 
of hours to dollars will be made based on dollars owed divided by the hourly pay rate. 

h. Employees who leave OUS service for any reason prior to fully paying back the draw will owe 
the remaining balance upon termination. 

i. The paycheck for the month after the transition month will be for the period of the 16th of the 
transition month through the 15th of the following month. 

j. Employee benefit pro-ration during the transition month will be based upon the regular 
monthly pay or the advance basis (position FTE multiplied by the monthly salary rate.) 

k. If the transition occurs during the summer months, academic year employees who are on 
leave without pay during the summer months shall receive the same advance privileges during 
the month of September of the transition year. Payback options will begin on November 30 of the 
transition year. 

l. OPEU SEIU Local 503 and OUS agree to jointly present campus sessions, as necessary, to 
explain these options to employees. Such sessions will be arranged by university/college Human 
Resources staffs and local Union leadership. 

m. Universities/colleges which change employees from a lst through 31st pay period to a 16th 
through 15th pay period, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, will pay the out-of-pocket expenses 
which employees would normally pay for health insurance during the transition month. It is 
understood that the "pick up" of health insurance costs is a one-time benefit offered only during 
the month in which the university/college makes a mass transition of employees to the 16th 
through 15th pay period to accommodate the implementation of HRIS. 

n. This section is intended to apply to group conversions, rather than individual conversions. 

Section 4. The parties agree that part-time employees who work for universities/colleges that 
elect not to change pay cycles for part-time workers from a lst through 31st time reporting period 
to a 16th through 15th time reporting period, as explained in Section 3 of this Letter of 
Agreement, shall have all additional pay, including but not limited to additional regular hours, 
overtime hours and pay differentials, that are earned after the current month's payroll cutoff, 
paid on the following month's paycheck. Likewise, adjustments necessitated by leave without pay 
will also be reflected in the following month's paycheck. Any adjustments to the prorated 
insurance benefit amount will be made in the following month. These adjustments could also 
affect an employee's eligibility for insurance in the following month(s). 

Section 5. Partial Month's Pay Calculation 

Notwithstanding Article 23, Payroll Computation Procedures, Section 1 (g), Partial Month's Pay, a 
consistent hours per month figure of 160 will be utilized for calculating partial month's pay. 

Section 6. Leave Accrual and Utilization 

In view of the Banner requirements for system-wide consistency as to whether leave hours may 
be taken in the same month accrued all universities/colleges will apply the "accrue, then take" 
rule, as follows: Leave may be taken commencing the first day of the month following the month 
in which it is accrued. 

Section 7. The parties agree that nothing in this Letter of Agreement changes or limits the 
Employer's practice of hiring new employees on a 16th through 15th pay period. The Employer 
may change an employee's pay period for the following reasons: 

a. The employee is working an intermittent or otherwise modified schedule due to medical 
necessity or a reasonable accommodation. 

b. The employee exhausts all forms of paid leave and is likely to have intermittent leave without 
pay. This provision shall not apply to employees accessing long-term leave without pay under 
Article 46, Leaves of Absence Without Pay. 

c. The employee requests a change in his/her work schedule that would result in the number of 
hours worked fluctuating from one month to the next. 

d. The employee's work hours have fluctuated from month to month over a three-month period. 
 
Provisions in c. and d. of this Section do not apply if the fluctuations are due to differing amounts 
of available work hours in a month (for example, 168 hours versus 184 hours). 
 
If the Employer elects to change the time reporting period for an employee, the Employer shall 
ensure that the employee's insurance eligibility is not jeopardized. 

 

OPEU/OUS CDL LETTER OF AGREEMENT 

This agreement is by and between the Oregon University System, through the Office of the 
Chancellor (OUS), hereinafter called the "Employer," on behalf of the University of Oregon, 
Oregon State University, and the Oregon Institute of Technology, and the Oregon Public 
Employees Union (OPEU), Local 503, thereinafter called the "Union." 

The parties agree to the following: 

Section 1. Application 

This Agreement covers all OPEU-represented employees who are required to possess a 
Commercial Driver's License (CDL) and perform safety-sensitive functions in all agencies where 
the Union is the bargaining agent. This Agreement will apply to employees starting January 1, 
1996. This Agreement is specifically limited to meeting the alcohol and drug testing requirements 
pursuant to Federal Department of Transportation regulations for CDLs and applicable law. 

Section 2. Term of Agreement 

This Agreement starts upon execution and ends June 30, 2003, except as otherwise noted. 

Section 3. Payment for Testing 

Agencies will pay for random, reasonable suspicion, post-accident, and return-to-duty-testing. If 
an employee wants additional tests conducted, the employee pays for the test. As used herein, a 
drug test may include both the initial and confirmation of a single specimen. 

Where an employee with a positive alcohol/drug test result is offered a last chance agreement by 
the university/college, which the employee signs, the university/college will pay for the first six 
followup tests required by the certified substance abuse professional. 

Section 4. Pre-employment Testing 

A pre-employment drug test will be conducted under the following conditions, except where 
conditions listed in Part 382.301 (b) (c) are met: 

a. New hire to the agency, unless the employee meets the requirements outlined in the 
regulations. 

b. Return from layoff. 

c. Re-employed as a seasonal employee. 

d. Promotions, demotions, and transfers where the employee moves into a position that requires 
a commercial driver's license. 

e. Where an employee possesses a commercial driver's license and receives a new assignment 
requiring the possession of a CDL, yet does not change positions. 

Section 5. Consequences of Positive Tests 

When a university/college receives notice of an employee's positive test, the university college 
will take one or more of the following actions in addition to removing the employee from safety-
sensitive functions: 

a. Random, Reasonable Suspicion, and Pre-employment Tests  

1. Temporarily assign the employee to non-safety-sensitive functions; 

2. Allow an employee to take accrued leave, or leave without pay, pursuant to 
the requirements of the agreement if the university/college does not assign non-
safety-sensitive functions; 

3. Refer the employee to rehabilitation and last chance agreement. 

4. Take disciplinary action pursuant to the requirements of the Agreement. In 
the case of pre-employment testing for promotions, demotions, or transfers 
where the employee is moving from a position that does not require a CDL to a 
position that requires a CDL, an additional option is to rescind the appointment. 

b. Post-Accident, Follow-up, and Return-to-Duty Testing 

1. Refer employee to rehabilitation and last chance agreement; and/or 

2. Take disciplinary action pursuant to the requirement of the Agreement. 

This Agreement does not waive employee rights under Part 382.505 as it applies to alcohol test 
results of 0.02 to 0.039. 
The parties acknowledge that the university/college, at its own discretion, may decide to offer a 
last change agreement to an employee as an alternative to termination. However, nothing in the 
Collective Bargaining Agreement or this Agreement shall preclude the university/college from 
issuing a lesser form of discipline in conjunction with offering a last chance agreement. Last 
chance agreements will not include blood testing or additional follow-up testing not required by 
the certified substance abuse professional. The duration of a last chance agreement shall be for a 

certified substance abuse professional. The duration of a last chance agreement shall be for a 
period of five (5) years starting from the effective date of the last chance agreement. After the 
five-year period, the last chance agreement will be removed from an employee's personnel file. 
Section 6. Use of Leaves 
a. An employee will be granted university/college time for actual testing, traveling to and from 
the test site if such travel is required, and for meeting with the medical review officer if such 
meeting is necessary. 
b. An employee who tests positive in a random, reasonable suspicion, or post-accident test can 
use any accrued leave or leave without pay pursuant to the terms of the Agreement when 
removed from his/her position when the university/college does not assign the employee non-
safety-sensitive functions to perform. 
c. An employee can use accrued leave or leave without pay pursuant to the terms of the 
Agreement to enroll in and participate in a rehabilitation program and for meeting with the 
certified substance abuse professional, if such meeting is required. 
d. If test results are later found to be negative, and the employee used accrued leave when 
removed from a safety-sensitive function, the employee's leave accrual balance will be restored. 
 
Section 7. Refusal to Test 
An employee will be terminated pursuant to the requirements of the Agreement. 
Section 8. Definition of "Accident" for Purposes of Post-Accident Testing 
The definition of "accident" shall be the same as the definition contained in Part 390.5 of the 
Federal regulations. Post accident testing shall be limited to the driver of the commercial motor 
vehicle pursuant to Part 382.303(a) of the Federal Regulations. 
Section 9. Status of Person on Return from Layoff and Seasonal Rehire 
The consequences of a person on a return from layoff list or seasonal rehire list, as a result of a 
positive test, will be the following: 
a. Return from Layoff: 

1. Alcohol test results of 0.04 or greater or a positive drug test. 

Upon notice from the employee, the university/college will consider that he/she 
exercises his/her one right of refusal under the Agreement and continues on the 
list pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. 

2. Alcohol test results of less than 0.04. 

The university/college will require that the employee take a return-to-duty test. 
If the test is negative, the person will be hired. If the alcohol test is positive, the 
employee will notify the university/college that he/she is exercising his/her one 
right of refusal under the Agreement and will continue on the list pursuant to the 
terms of the Agreement. 

b. Seasonal Rehire 

1. Alcohol test result of 0.04 or greater or positive drug test. 

The person will not be rehired, but can apply under reemployment conditions. 

2. Alcohol test results of less than 0.04. 

The university/college will require that the person take a return-to-duty test. If 
the test is negative, the person will be hired. If the test is positive, the person 
will be denied the position and can reapply under reemployment conditions. 

Section 10. Employees Authorized to Require Reasonable Suspicion Testing 
In addition to supervisors, an OPEU-represented employee may be assigned to require 
reasonable suspicion testing of an employee only when: 

1. The employee has been formally assigned in writing to perform the 
responsibilities of a management service position, and, 

2. The employee has been trained to determine "reasonable suspicion" in 
accordance with the Federal regulations covering alcohol and drug testing for 
commercial drivers. 

Section 11. Requested Written Information 

1. Upon request of the affected employee or Union representative, the 
university/college will provide to the affected employee or Union representative 
written verification of a positive drug test after the university/college receives 
such written verification of a positive drug test. 

2. The number of random drug tests conducted and the number of positive drug 
tests will be sent to the Union on a quarterly basis. 
 
3. Upon the Union's written request, the university/college will obtain from the 
State Contractor, the location of prior random drug testing for the previous 
calendar quarter for the university/college for which the Union seeks such 
information. The Union shall pay any costs associated with obtaining the 
information requested by the Union.  

 
 

REDUCED MEAL COST OF FOOD SERVICE EMPLOYEES - OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY 

This Letter of Agreement is entered into by and between the Oregon University System (OUS) on 
behalf of Oregon State University, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer", and the Oregon 
Public Employees Union, SEIU Local 503, hereinafter referred to as the "Union". 

The Employer and the Union agree that food service employees at Oregon State University shall 
pay the amount of $1.00 for each meal provided by the Employer at their work site during 
regularly scheduled shifts. Packaged goods and bottled beverages are expressly excluded from 
the reduced meal costs implemented by this Agreement. 

Food service at Oregon State University is provided by two discrete units: University Housing and 
Dining and the Memorial Union. Each of these units may independently decide, at its discretion, 
to require payment for the reduced meal as a payroll deduction or at the point of service. Should 
an employee decline to authorize a payroll deduction, if required, for meals, that employee shall 
either provide his/her own meal or shall pay full retail price at the time of consumption. Reduced 
costs of meals is not transferable between University Housing and Dining and the Memorial 

Union. That is, food service employees may access the reduced meal costs only in the 
department for which they are employed. 

This Agreement pertains to Oregon State University Food Service employees only. Entering into 
this Agreement shall not prejudice the positions of either party regarding similar issues in other 
agencies or work units either now or in the future. 

The Employer may continue payroll deductions for meals for food service employees upon 
implementation of this Agreement and the authorization of each food service employee. 

This Letter of Agreement terminates June 30, 2003. 

 
 
 

OUS/OPEU  

MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULE 

DECEMBER 1, 1999 

SALARY RANGE   Step 1   Step 2   Step 3   Step 4   Step 5   Step 6   Step 7   Step 8  
5  
1536 
1536 
5B  
1594 
6  
7  
1662 
1735 
8  
1735 
8B  
9  
1816 
1882 
10  
1974 
11  
1974 
11B  
12  
2060 
2060 
12B  
2164 
13  
13B  
2164 
2267 
14  
2267 
14B  
15  
2375 
2375 
15B  
2484 
16  
16B  
2484 
2605 
17  

1263 
  
1308 
1360 
1400 
  
1466 
1532 
1593 
  
1662 
  
1735 
  
1816 
  
1882 
  
1974 
  
2060 

1360 
1360 
1414 
1476 
1532 
1532 
1593 
1662 
1735 
1735 
1816 
1816 
1882 
1882 
1974 
1974 
2060 
2060 
2164 
2164 
2267 

1476 
1476 
1536 
1594 
1662 
1662 
1735 
1816 
1882 
1882 
1974 
1974 
2060 
2060 
2164 
2164 
2267 
2267 
2375 
2375 
2484 

1165 
  
1210 
1263 
1308 
  
1347 
1400 
1466 
  
1532 
  
1593 
  
1662 
  
1735 
  
1816 
  
1882 

1210 
  
1263 
1308 
1347 
  
1400 
1466 
1532 
  
1593 
  
1662 
  
1735 
  
1816 
  
1882 
  
1974 

1308 
  
1360 
1414 
1466 
  
1532 
1593 
1662 
  
1735 
  
1816 
  
1882 
  
1974 
  
2060 
  
2164 

1414 
1414 
1476 
1536 
1593 
1593 
1662 
1735 
1816 
1816 
1882 
1882 
1974 
1974 
2060 
2060 
2164 
2164 
2267 
2267 
2375 

17B  
17T  
18  
18B  
18T  
19  
19B  
19T  
20  
20B  
21  
21I  
21T  
22  
22B  
23  
23B  
24  
24T  
25  
25T  
26  
26I 
27  
28  
28I 
29  
30  
31  
32  
32I 
33  
34  
34I 

  
  
1974 
  
  
2060 
  
  
2164 
  
2267 
1802   
  
2375 
  
2484 
  
2605 
  
2728 
  
2857 
1936   
2994 
3144 
1805   
3293 
3451 
3616 
3794 
2223   
3980 
4177 
2441   

  
  
2060 
  
  
2164 
  
  
2267 
  
2375 

  
2484 
  
2605 
  
2728 
  
2857 
  
2994 

3144 
3293 

3451 
3616 
3794 
3980 

4177 
4376 

  

  

  

  

  

  
  
2164 
  
  
2267 
  
  
2375 
  
2484 

  
2605 
  
2728 
  
2857 
  
2994 
  
3144 

3293 
3451 

3616 
3794 
3980 
4177 

4376 
4592 

  

  

  

  

  

  
  
2267 
  
  
2375 
  
  
2484 
  
2605 

  
2728 
  
2857 
  
2994 
  
3144 
  
3293 

3451 
3616 

3794 
3980 
4177 
4376 

4592 
4813 

  

  

  

  

  

2267 
2342 
2375 
2375 
2455 
2484 
2484 
2571 
2605 
2605 
2728 

2825 
2857 
2857 
2994 
2994 
3144 
3241 
3293 
3392 
3451 

3616 
3794 

3980 
4177 
4376 
4592 

4813 
5050 

  

  

  

  

  

2375 
2455 
2484 
2484 
2571 
2605 
2605 
2697 
2728 
2728 
2857 

2956 
2994 
2994 
3144 
3144 
3293 
3392 
3451 
3570 
3616 

3794 
3980 

4177 
4376 
4592 
4813 

5050 
5296 

  

  

  

  

  

2484 
2571 
2605 
2605 
2697 
2728 
2728 
2825 
2857 
2857 
2994 

3098 
3144 
3144 
3293 
3293 
3451 
3555 
3616 
3742 
3794 

3980 
4177 

4376 
4592 
4813 
5050 

5296 
5558 

2605 
2697 
2728 
2728 
2828 
2857 
2857 
2956 
2994 
2994 
3144 
3286 
3253 
3293 
3293 
3451 
3451 
3616 
3742 
3794 
3925 
3980 
4145 
4177 
4376 
4495 
4592 
4813 
5050 
5296 
5460 
5558 
5824 
5961 
  

"B" Rates are the four top steps of a regular salary range.  
"I" OUS and OPEU negotiated broad pay ranges for Information Technology positions. Article 21 
and 69 contain a complete description of the program.  

"T" Four-step ranges that have steps between regular salary ranges.  

  

$38.incr  
Last Updated on 01/26/00  
 
 
 

OUS/OPEU  

MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULE 
JANUARY 2001, rounded, 2.5% 

SALARY RANGE   Step 1   Step 2   Step 3   Step 4   Step 5   Step 6   Step 7   Step 8  
5  
1574 
1574 
5B  
1634 
6  
7  
1704 
1778 
8  
1778 
8B  
9  
1861 
1929 
10  
2023 
11  
11B  
2023 
2112 
12  
2112 
12B  
13  
2218 
2218 
13B  
2324 
14  
14B  
2324 
2434 
15  
2434 
15B  
16  
2546 
2546 
16B  
2670 
17  
17B  
2670 
2764 
17T  
2796 
18  
18B  
2796 
2899 
18T  

1295 
  
1341 
1394 
1435 
  
1503 
1570 
1633 
  
1704 
  
1778 
  
1861 
  
1929 
  
2023 
  
2112 
  
  
2218 
  
  

1513 
1513 
1574 
1634 
1704 
1704 
1778 
1861 
1929 
1929 
2023 
2023 
2112 
2112 
2218 
2218 
2324 
2324 
2434 
2434 
2546 
2546 
2635 
2670 
2670 
2764 

1194 
  
1240 
1295 
1341 
  
1381 
1435 
1503 
  
1570 
  
1633 
  
1704 
  
1778 
  
1861 
  
1929 
  
  
2023 
  
  

1240 
  
1295 
1341 
1381 
  
1435 
1503 
1570 
  
1633 
  
1704 
  
1778 
  
1861 
  
1929 
  
2023 
  
  
2112 
  
  

1341 
  
1394 
1449 
1503 
  
1570 
1633 
1704 
  
1778 
  
1861 
  
1929 
  
2023 
  
2112 
  
2218 
  
  
2324 
  
  

1394 
1394 
1449 
1513 
1570 
1570 
1633 
1704 
1778 
1778 
1861 
1861 
1929 
1929 
2023 
2023 
2112 
2112 
2218 
2218 
2324 
2324 
2401 
2434 
2434 
2516 

1449 
1449 
1513 
1574 
1633 
1633 
1704 
1778 
1861 
1861 
1929 
1929 
2023 
2023 
2112 
2112 
2218 
2218 
2324 
2324 
2434 
2434 
2516 
2546 
2546 
2635 

19  
19B  
19T  
20  
20B  
21  
21I 
21T  
22  
22B  
23  
23B  
24  
24T  
25  
25T  
26  
26I 
27  
28  
28I 
29  
30  
31  
32  
32I 
33  
34  
34I 

2112 
  
  
2218 
  
2324 
1847   
  
2434 
  
2546 
  
2670 
  
2796 
  
2928 
1984   
3069 
3223 
1850   
3375 
3537 
3706 
3889 
2279   
4080 
4281 
2502   

2218 
  
  
2324 
  
2434 

  
2546 
  
2670 
  
2796 
  
2928 
  
3069 

3223 
3375 

3537 
3706 
3889 
4080 

4281 
4485 

  

  

  

  

  

2324 
  
  
2434 
  
2546 

  
2670 
  
2796 
  
2928 
  
3069 
  
3223 

3375 
3537 

3706 
3889 
4080 
4281 

4485 
4707 

  

  

  

  

  

2434 
  
  
2546 
  
2670 

  
2796 
  
2928 
  
3069 
  
3223 
  
3375 

3537 
3706 

3889 
4080 
4281 
4485 

4707 
4933 

  

  

  

  

  

2546 
2546 
2635 
2670 
2670 
2796 

2896 
2928 
2928 
3069 
3069 
3223 
3322 
3375 
3477 
3537 

3706 
3889 

4080 
4281 
4485 
4707 

4933 
5176 

  

  

  

  

  

2670 
2670 
2764 
2796 
2796 
2928 

3030 
3069 
3069 
3223 
3223 
3375 
3477 
3537 
3659 
3706 

3889 
4080 

4281 
4485 
4707 
4933 

5176 
5428 

  

  

  

  

  

2796 
2796 
2896 
2928 
2928 
3069 

3175 
3223 
3223 
3375 
3375 
3537 
3644 
3706 
3836 
3889 

4080 
4281 

4485 
4707 
4933 
5176 

5428 
5697 

2928 
2928 
3030 
3069 
3069 
3223 
3368 
3334 
3375 
3375 
3537 
3537 
3706 
3836 
3889 
4023 
4080 
4249 
4281 
4485 
4607 
4707 
4933 
5176 
5428 
5597 
5697 
5970 
6110 
  

"B" Rates are the four top steps of a regular salary range.  
"I" OUS and OPEU negotiated broad pay ranges for Information Technology positions. Article 21 
and 69 contain a complete description of the program.  
"T" Four-step ranges that have steps between regular salary ranges.  

  

2.5%.incr  
Last Updated on 01/26/00  
 
 

 

OUS/OPEU  

MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULE 

OCTOBER 1, 1999 

SALARY RANGE   Step 1   Step 2   Step 3   Step 4   Step 5   Step 6   Step 7   Step 8  
1498 
5  
1498 
5B  
6  
1556 
1624 
7  
1778 
8  
8B  
1697 
1778 
9  
1844 
10  
11  
1936 
1936 
11B  
2022 
12  
12B  
2022 
2126 
13  
2126 
13B  
14  
2229 
2229 
14B  
2337 
15  
15B  
2337 
2446 
16  
2446 
16B  
17  
2567 
2567 
17B  
2659 
17T  
18  
2690 
2690 
18B  
2790 
18T  
19  
2819 
2819 
19B  
2918 
19T  
20  
2956 
2956 
20B  
21  
3106 

1225 
  
1270 
1322 
1362 
  
1428 
1494 
1555 
  
1624 
  
1697 
  
1778 
  
1844 
  
1936 
  
2022 
  
  
2126 
  
  
2229 
  
  
2337 
  
2446 

1322 
1322 
1376 
1438 
1494 
1494 
1555 
1624 
1697 
1697 
1778 
1778 
1844 
1844 
1936 
1936 
2022 
2022 
2126 
2126 
2229 
2229 
2304 
2337 
2337 
2417 
2446 
2446 
2533 
2567 
2567 
2690 

1438 
1438 
1498 
1556 
1624 
1624 
1697 
1778 
1844 
1844 
1936 
1936 
2022 
2022 
2126 
2126 
2229 
2229 
2337 
2337 
2446 
2446 
2533 
2567 
2567 
2659 
2690 
2690 
2787 
2819 
2819 
2956 

1127 
  
1172 
1225 
1270 
  
1309 
1362 
1428 
  
1494 
  
1555 
  
1624 
  
1697 
  
1778 
  
1844 
  
  
1936 
  
  
2022 
  
  
2126 
  
2229 

1172 
  
1225 
1270 
1309 
  
1362 
1428 
1494 
  
1555 
  
1624 
  
1697 
  
1778 
  
1844 
  
1936 
  
  
2022 
  
  
2126 
  
  
2229 
  
2337 

1270 
  
1322 
1376 
1428 
  
1494 
1555 
1624 
  
1697 
  
1778 
  
1844 
  
1936 
  
2022 
  
2126 
  
  
2229 
  
  
2337 
  
  
2446 
  
2567 

1376 
1376 
1438 
1498 
1555 
1555 
1624 
1697 
1778 
1778 
1844 
1844 
1936 
1936 
2022 
2022 
2126 
2126 
2229 
2229 
2337 
2337 
2417 
2446 
2446 
2533 
2567 
2567 
2659 
2690 
2690 
2819 

21T  
22  
22B  
23  
23B  
24  
24T  
25  
25T  
26  
27  
28  
29  
30  
31  
32  
33  
34  

  
2337 
  
2446 
  
2567 
  
2690 
  
2819 
2956 
3106 
3255 
3413 
3578 
3756 
3942 
4139 

  
2446 
  
2567 
  
2690 
  
2819 
  
2956 
3106 
3255 
3413 
3578 
3756 
3942 
4139 
4338 

  
2567 
  
2690 
  
2819 
  
2956 
  
3106 
3255 
3413 
3578 
3756 
3942 
4139 
4338 
4554 

  
2690 
  
2819 
  
2956 
  
3106 
  
3255 
3413 
3578 
3756 
3942 
4139 
4338 
4554 
4775 

2787 
2819 
2819 
2956 
2956 
3106 
3203 
3255 
3354 
3413 
3578 
3756 
3942 
4139 
4338 
4554 
4775 
5012 

2918 
2956 
2956 
3106 
3106 
3255 
3354 
3413 
3532 
3578 
3756 
3942 
4139 
4338 
4554 
4775 
5012 
5258 

3060 
3106 
3106 
3255 
3255 
3413 
3517 
3578 
3704 
3756 
3942 
4139 
4338 
4554 
4775 
5012 
5258 
5520 

3215 
3255 
3255 
3413 
3413 
3578 
3704 
3756 
3887 
3942 
4139 
4338 
4554 
4775 
5012 
5258 
5520 
5786 
  

"B" Rates are the four top steps of a regular salary range.  
"I" OUS and OPEU negotiated broad pay ranges for Information Technology positions. Article 21 
and 69 contain a complete description of the program.  
"T" Four-step ranges that have steps between regular salary ranges.  

2%.incr  
Last Updated on 01/26/00  
 
 
 

Classification Number: 4511 
ABLE MARINER 
 

  

 

SALARY RANGE 

Step 1  
 
Salary 
Range 13   $1633  

 

Step 2  

Step 3  

Step 4  

Step 5  

Step 6  

Step 7  

Step 8  

$1704  

$1778  

$1861  

$1929  

$2023  

$2112  

$2218  

 

 
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF CLASS 

The ABLE MARINER performs a variety of routine, deck, and nonengineer duties aboard a vessel used in 
marine research operations. 

DISTINGUISHING FEATURES 

This is the second level of a three-level series. This class is distinguished from the lower Ordinary Mariner 
level by its responsibility for performing skilled deck and nonengineering duties on board the vessel. This 
level is distinguished from the upper level Boatswain by the absence of responsibility for planning, 
scheduling, and assigning work to subordinates.  

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 

1.Vessel Maintenance. Typical tasks: cleans, paints, and maintains ship's hull, decks, 
bulkheads, equipment, masts, quarters, heads, and tanks; assists in mooring and 
unmooring the vessel; assists in rigging and handling scientific gear; loads and unloads 
equipment and stores; assists in fire fighting and maintenance of firefighting equipment. 
2. Hatch Standing. Typical tasks: stands watch as helmsman, visual and radar lookout 
and/or winch operator at sea; stands security watch in ports other than home port; 
stands watch as assigned for a specific period of time. 
3. Equipment Operation. Typical tasks: operates shipboard deck equipment such as 
winches, crane, boat, davits, anchor windlass, and capstan during research work at sea; 
operates ship's equipment such as cranes and winches while in ports to load and unload 
supplies and equipment; assists in shipboard operations as required during research work 
such as data collection. 

  
RELATIONSHIPS WITH OTHERS 
Employees in this class have no contact with individuals outside of the work unit. Assignments are 
received from shipboard personnel and work is performed on the vessel. 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Employees in this class receive close supervision from a supervisory level mariner. Assigned work Is 
reviewed periodically for completeness and conformance to established rules, regulations, and guidelines. 
GENERAL INFORMATION 
Positions in this class are found on ships conducting research at sea for extended periods of time. They 
require the willingness to work within the environment associated with the position's location. 
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 
Possession of a Merchant Mariner's Document with an endorsement of Able Seaman, Any Waters-
Unlimited issued by the U.S. Coast Guard. 

 
 
 

Classification Number: 2205 
ARCHIVIST  
 

 

SALARY RANGE 

Step 1  
 
Salary 
Range 19   $2112  

 

Step 2  

Step 3  

Step 4  

Step 5  

Step 6  

Step 7  

Step 8  

$2218  

$2324  

$2434  

$2546  

$2670  

$2796  

$2928  

 
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF CLASS 

 

 
The ARCHIVIST collects, evaluates, arranges, describes, and preserves archival records, researches and 
provides reference services of those records, and consults with the Agency and/or other State and local 
government agencies on records management. 

 
DISTINGUISHING FEATURES 

This is the second level of a two-level series. Employees at this level independently perform the full range 
of archival work. 

 
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 

The duties listed below are not inclusive but characteristic of the type and level of work associated with 
this class. Individual positions may perform all or some combination of the duties listed below as well as 
other related duties. 

1.  Records Processing. Accessions Agency or other State and local government records by 

evaluating the nature, scope and original order of the records, the history, functions and types of 
materials, their relationship to previous accessions and continuity with existing arrangements of 
similar records. Appraise records for administrative, legal, fiscal, and research value.  

Determines disposition of records, including permanent or temporary storage, appropriate method 
to preserve documents, or destruction.  

Arranges, sorts and categorizes records according to archival principles. Prepare document 
descriptions and reference aids (e.g., subject guides and accession registers) for use in locating 
records.  

2.  Reference and Research Services. Discusses research projects with service users to 

determine relevant resources. Explains research techniques, service fees, and use of reference 
aids and equipment. Refers users to other sources for collateral information.  

Researches archival records upon request or as part of a research project, reports findings and 
provides copies of records, as necessary. Prepares guides to archival information. Oversees use of 
archival records to prevent loss or damage. Completes records use slips and prepares bills and 
receipts for services.  

3.  Records Management. Develops general and special records retention schedules for legal 

approval of the State Archivist. Assists the Agency or other State and local government agencies 
in developing agency specific retention schedules. Advises agencies on proper systems for 
managing and maintaining agency records, utilizing and implementing retention and disposition 
schedules, records storage and retrieval, forms design and control, and proper methods of 
preserving or disposition of records.  

Explains archival procedures and State and Federal public records requirements and confidentiality 
laws to agency staff. Reviews requests for legal disposition of records and arranges for transmittal 
to the State Archives. Resolves problems related to records disposition, transmittal of or access to 
records of the Archives.  

Inventories and describes records in the custody of State and local government agencies as part 
of a comprehensive records management project.  

4.  Public Information Programs. Participates in outreach and public information programs for 
state and local government agencies and the public. Writes or prepares portions of newsletters, 
brochures, educational materials, audio-visual programs and exhibits. Develops and presents 
portions of workshops and seminars.  

5.  Miscellaneous. Edits guides and publications. Verifies the accuracy of data and results in 

constructing automated records processing data bases. Provides guidance and technical 
assistance to entry-level archivists and clerical staff.  

RELATIONSHIPS WITH OTHERS 
Employees in this class have regular contact in person, by telephone, and in writing with the general 
public and employees of government agencies, scholars, genealogists, other archivists, or historic 
depositories to answer research requests, locate and provide records from the Archives, suggest 
alternative reference resources, and in preparing and presenting portions of educational outreach 
programs. Employees also have contact in person, by telephone and in writing with State and local 
government agency heads, managers, and designated records officers on a regular basis to provide 
technical assistance and advice in laws, rules, and professional practices related to records processing and 
records management. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Employees in this class receive general supervision from an archives manager or other administrative 
superior who assigns work and reviews completed work for results, accuracy and appropriateness of 
recommendations. 
State and Federal laws, administrative rules, and professional manuals published by the Society of 
American Archivists along with guides and manuals published by archives agencies of other states are 
applied in activities related to records processing, records management, research and reference, and 
educational outreach programs. 
 
GENERAL INFORMATION 
Some positions in this class may require the willingness to work in an environment which may be poorly 
lit, damp, musty, dusty, or dirty. Some positions may require lifting boxes weighing up to 30 pounds and 
some positions may also require regular travel, including overnight or extended trips. 
 
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 

•  a Bachelor's degree with courses ( 30 quarter or 20 semester hours) in social research, public 

administration, history, political science, or closely related field; OR  
two years of college-level courses and two years technical or research experience in archives; OR  
four years of technical experience in archives involving automated archival systems including 

• 
• 

methods for automated archival storage and retrieval; OR  

•  an equivalent combination of archives training and technical experience.  

 
 
 

Human Resources 
Classification Specifications 
 

Title

Number

Salary

Sort

 

 

   Show All   

 

 

Class Title 

ABLE MARINER 

ACCOUNTANT 1 

ACCOUNTANT 2 

ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAM ASSISTANT 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAM SPECIALIST 

ANALYST PROGRAMMER 

ARCHITECTURAL CONSULTANT 

ARCHITECTURAL DRAFTER 1 

ARCHITECTURAL DRAFTER 2 

ARCHIVIST  

ARTIST'S MODEL 

ASSISTANT PORT ENGINEER 

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT COORDINATOR 

AUDIO VISUAL ASSISTANT 

AUDIO VISUAL TECHNICIAN 1 

AUDIO VISUAL TECHNICIAN 2 

 

Search

 

 

Salary 
Range 

Class 
Number 

4511 

1202 

1203 

0201 

0107 

0108 

1464 

3615 

3150 

3151 

2205 

2394 

4535 

0715 

2190 

2191 

2192 

13 

21 

23 

15 

17 

19 

34I 

27 

16 

18 

19 

5B 

22 

15B 

10 

12 

15 

AUDIO/VIDEO REPAIR TECHNICIAN 

AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC 1 

AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC 2 

BAKER 

BINDERY ASSISTANT 

BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES RESEARCH TECHNICIAN 1 

BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES RESEARCH TECHNICIAN 2 

BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES RESEARCH TECHNICIAN 3 

BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES RESEARCH WORKER 

BOAT OPERATOR 

BOATSWAIN 

BODY/FENDER REPAIR WORKER 

BROADCAST/TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEER 1 

BROADCAST/TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENGINEER 2 

BUDGET ANALYST 

BUYER 1 

BUYER 2 

BUYER 3 

CAMPUS DISPATCHER 

CAMPUS PATROL OFFICER 

CAMPUS SECURITY/PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER 

CARPENTER 

CARTOGRAPHER 1 

CARTOGRAPHER 2 

CARTOGRAPHER 3 

CARTOGRAPHIC ASSISTANT 

CARTOGRAPHIC PROGRAM SPECIALIST 

CASHIER 1 

2195 

4410 

4411 

9110 

2411 

8113 

8114 

8115 

8110 

4515 

4512 

4413 

2162 

2163 

1142 

0792 

0793 

0794 

0312 

5520 

5522 

4207 

3116 

3117 

3118 

3115 

3121 

0230 

18B 

12B 

16B 

16 

10 

12 

14 

16 

10 

15B 

15 

17B 

21 

23 

26 

18 

20 

23 

13 

11 

14 

19B 

13 

17 

19 

11 

21 

9 

CASHIER 2 

CHARGE NURSE 

CHEMIST 1 

CHEMIST 2 

CHEMIST 3 

CO-GENERATION ENGINEER 

COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 

CONSTRUCTION INSPECTOR 

CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER 1 

CONSTRUCTION PROJECT MANAGER 2 

COOK 1 

COOK 2 

CUSTODIAL SERVICES COORDINATOR 

CUSTODIAN 

DAY CARE CENTER COOK 

DENTAL ASSISTANT 1 

DENTAL ASSISTANT 2 

DENTAL HYGIENIST 

DEVELOPMENT ENGINEER 

EARLY CHILDHOOD ASSISTANT 

EARLY CHILDHOOD ASSOCIATE TEACHER 

EDITOR ASSISTANT 

EDITOR 

EDUCATION PROGRAM ASSISTANT 

EDUCATION PROGRAM SPECIALIST 

EDUCATION PROJECT ASSISTANT 

ELECTRICAL/CONTROL SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN 

ELECTRICIAN 

0231 

6223 

3715 

3716 

3717 

4251 

2172 

5310 

4270 

4271 

9116 

9117 

4103 

4101 

9114 

6390 

6391 

6396 

3213 

2316 

2315 

2145 

2146 

2312 

2313 

2309 

4248 

4213 

12 

27 

21 

23 

25 

22 

20B 

22B 

23 

26 

12 

16 

13 

9 

12 

9 

13 

22 

26 

9 

15 

15 

18 

13 

31 

11 

25T 

24T 

ELECTRONIC TECHNICIAN 1 

ELECTRONIC TECHNICIAN 2 

ELEVATOR MECHANIC 

ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN 1 

ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN 2 

ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN 3 

ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 
TECHNOLOGIST 

ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST 1 

ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST 2 

ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST 3 

EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 1 

EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 2 

EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS SPECIALIST 

EXECUTIVE SUPPORT SPECIALIST 1 

EXECUTIVE SUPPORT SPECIALIST 2 

FACILITIES ENGINEER 1 

FACILITIES ENGINEER 2 

FACILITIES ENGINEER 3 

FISCAL AUDITOR 1 

FISCAL AUDITOR 2 

FISCAL COORDINATOR 1 

FISCAL COORDINATOR 2 

FOOD SERVICE COORDINATOR 

FOOD SERVICE WORKER 1 

FOOD SERVICE WORKER 2 

FOOD SERVICE WORKER 3 

GENERAL MAINTENANCE MECHANIC 

4335 

4336 

4475 

3109 

3110 

3111 

3815 

3817 

3818 

3819 

4420 

4421 

1461 

0118 

0119 

3251 

3252 

3253 

5641 

5642 

1205 

1207 

9103 

9100 

9101 

9102 

4409 

14B 

17B 

26 

15 

17 

19 

22 

18 

22 

24 

13B 

15B 

26I 

17 

19 

27 

30 

32 

23 

26 

23 

27 

17 

6 

8 

12 

18B 

GOVERNMENTAL AUDITOR - ENTRY 

GOVERNMENTAL AUDITOR 1 

GOVERNMENTAL AUDITOR 2 

GOVERNMENTAL AUDITOR 3 

GRANTS/CONTRACTS COORDINATOR 

GRANTS/CONTRACTS TECHNICIAN  

GRAPHIC ARTIST 1 

GRAPHIC ARTIST 2 

GRAPHIC ARTIST 3 

GROUNDS MAINTENANCE WORKER 1 

GROUNDS MAINTENANCE WORKER 2 

HEALTH PHYSICIST 

HISTOTECHNOLOGIST 

HORTICULTURIST 

HVAC CONTROL TECHNICIAN 

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST 1 

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST 2 

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST 3 

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST 4 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANT 

INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN 1-ELECTR 

INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN 1-MECH 

INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN 2-ELECTR 

INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN 2-MECH 

INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN 3-ELECTR 

INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN 3-MECH 

INSTRUMENT TECHNOLOGIST-ELECTR 

INSTRUMENT TECHNOLOGIST-MECH 

5645 

5646 

5647 

5648 

0430 

0202 

2510 

2511 

2512 

4109 

4110 

3455 

6840 

8145 

4112 

5705 

5706 

5707 

5708 

1462 

3170 

3160 

3171 

3161 

3172 

3162 

3173 

3163 

18 

23 

26 

29 

24 

17 

15 

18 

21 

14 

16 

29 

19 

23 

19B 

18 

23 

25 

27 

28I 

17 

17 

19 

19 

21 

21 

23B 

23 

INVENTORY CONTROL SPECIALIST 

ISSUING AGENT 

LABORATORY AIDE 

LABORATORY ANIMAL TECHNICIAN 1 

LABORATORY ANIMAL TECHNICIAN 2 

LABORATORY ASSISTANT 

LABORATORY TECHNICIAN 1 

LABORATORY TECHNICIAN 2 

LABORER 1 

LABORER 2 

LAUNDRY WORKER 

LIBRARIAN 1 

LIBRARIAN 2 

LIBRARIAN 3 

LIBRARIAN 4 

LIBRARY TECHNICIAN 1 

LIBRARY TECHNICIAN 2 

LIBRARY TECHNICIAN 3 

LICENSED PHYSICAL THERAPY ASSISTANT 

LICENSED PRACTICAL NURSE 

LIMITED ENERGY ELECTRICIAN 

LOCKSMITH 

MACHINIST 

MAIL SERVICES ASSISTANT 

MAINTENANCE ELECTRICIAN 

MAINTENANCE LABORER COORDINATOR 

MANAGEMENT ANALYST 1 

MANAGEMENT ANALYST 2 

0709 

0714 

6805 

6880 

6881 

6807 

6810 

6811 

4115 

4116 

9210 

2215 

2216 

2217 

2218 

0300 

0301 

0302 

6502 

6135 

4231 

4227 

4215 

0405 

4204 

4118 

1180 

1181 

16 

9 

9 

10 

13 

12 

15 

19 

11 

14 

7 

17 

18 

23 

26 

11 

13 

17 

17 

16 

16 

16B 

19B 

8 

17T 

17 

19 

23 

MANAGEMENT ANALYST 3 

MATERIALS CONTROLLER 

MEDICAL AIDE 

MEDICAL LABORATORY TECH 1 

MEDICAL LABORATORY TECH 2 

MEDICAL LABORATORY TECHNOLOGIST 

MEDICAL RECORD SPECIALIST 

MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST 2 

MICROBIOLOGIST 1 

MICROBIOLOGIST 2 

MICROBIOLOGIST 3 

MID-LEVEL MEDICAL PRACTITIONER 

MUSEUM ASSISTANT 

MUSEUM TECHNICIAN 

NECROPSY ASSISTANT 

NEWSPAPER N/SHIFT PROD COORDINATOR 

NUCLEAR REACTOR OPERATOR 

NURSE PRACTITIONER 

NUTRITION CONSULTANT 

NUTRITION EDUCATION ASSISTANT 

NUTRITION EDUCATION COORDINATOR 

OFFICE ASSISTANT  

OFFICE SPECIALIST 1 

OFFICE SPECIALIST 2 

OFFSET PRESS OPERATOR 1 

OFFSET PRESS OPERATOR 2 

OFFSET PRESS OPERATOR 3 

OPERATING SYSTEM/NETWORK ANALYST 

1182 

3140 

6107 

6820 

6821 

6823 

0015 

0011 

3779 

3780 

3781 

6258 

2121 

4295 

6435 

2430 

3750 

6255 

5955 

6640 

6642 

0102 

0103 

0104 

2447 

2448 

2449 

1463 

26 

14 

12 

15 

18 

23 

15 

14 

23 

25 

27 

30 

12 

14 

16 

17 

16 

29 

25 

11 

13 

9 

12 

15 

12 

13 

15 

32I 

OPERATIONS SPECIALIST 

ORDINARY MARINER 

PAINTER 

PARALEGAL 1 

PARALEGAL 2 

PARALEGAL 3 

PARALEGAL SPECIALIST 

PARKING SERVICES REPRESENTATIVE 

PARTS SUPPLY SPECIALIST 1 

PARTS SUPPLY SPECIALIST 2 

PARTS SUPPLY SPECIALIST 3 

PAYROLL ASSISTANT 

PAYROLL TECHNICIAN 

PHARMACIST 

PHOTOCOMPOSITION SPECIALIST 

PHOTOGRAPHER 1 

PHOTOGRAPHER 2 

PHYSICAL THERAPIST 

PIPE AND STEAM FITTER 

PLASTERER 

PLUMBER 

PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE PLANNER 

PRINT SERVICES TECHNICIAN 

PRINTING PRODUCTION COORDINATOR 

PRODUCTION CONTROL SCHEDULER 1 

PRODUCTION CONTROL SCHEDULER 2 

PROGRAM REPRESENTATIVE 1 

PROGRAM REPRESENTATIVE 2 

1460 

4510 

4209 

1523 

1524 

1525 

1526 

5550 

0775 

0776 

0777 

0204 

0205 

6260 

2460 

2546 

2547 

6503 

4245 

4221 

4211 

3142 

2477 

2475 

1470 

1471 

0816 

0817 

21I 

9 

18B 

15 

19 

22 

24 

11 

10 

14 

16 

13 

15 

29 

15 

13B 

15B 

26 

19T 

18B 

19T 

18 

16 

23 

13 

15 

22 

26 

PROGRAM TECHNICIAN 1 

PROGRAM TECHNICIAN 2 

PROJECT COORDINATOR 

PROOFREADER 

PROPERTY SPECIALIST 1 

PROPERTY SPECIALIST 2 

PROPERTY SPECIALIST 3 

PSYCHOMETRICIAN 

PUBLIC INFORMATION ASSISTANT 

PUBLIC INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE 1 

PUBLIC INFORMATION REPRESENTATIVE 2 

PUBLIC SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE 

PUBLICATIONS EDITOR 

PURCHASING AGENT 1 

PURCHASING AGENT 2 

PURCHASING ANALYST 1 

PURCHASING ANALYST 2 

PURCHASING ANALYST 3 

PURCHASING ASSISTANT 

RADIATION PROTECTION TECHNOLOGIST 1 

RADIATION PROTECTION TECHNOLOGIST 2 

RADIATION PROTECTION TECHNOLOGIST 3 

RADIO/TV COMMUNICATIONS TECH 

RADIOLOGIC TECHNOLOGIST 1 

RADIOLOGIC TECHNOLOGIST 2 

REFRIGERATION MECHANIC 

REGISTERED NURSE 1 

REGISTERED NURSE 2 

0812 

0813 

0810 

0125 

0705 

0706 

0707 

6298 

2110 

2111 

2112 

0324 

2147 

0796 

0797 

0767 

0768 

0769 

0795 

3450 

3451 

3452 

2182 

6347 

6348 

4470 

6224 

6225 

23 

27 

26 

10 

12 

14 

16 

16 

17 

21 

25 

19 

21 

18 

23 

21 

24 

26 

13 

19 

24 

29 

17 

17 

20 

20B 

25 

27 

RESEARCH ANALYST 1 

RESEARCH ANALYST 2 

RESEARCH ANALYST 3 

RESEARCH ANALYST 4 

RETAIL STORE ASSISTANT 

REVENUE AGENT 1 

REVENUE AGENT 2 

REVENUE AGENT 3 

SCIENCE LABORATORY PREPARATOR 

SCIENCE STOREKEEPER 

SCIENCE/TECHNICAL EDITOR 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN 1 

SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN 2 

SEED ANALYST - ENTRY 

SEED ANALYST 1 

SEED ANALYST 2 

SEED CERTIFICATION AIDE 

SENIOR NUCLEAR REACTOR OPERATOR 

SHEETMETAL WORKER 

SHIP'S 1ST ASSISTANT ENGINEER 

SHIP'S 2ND ASSISTANT ENGINEER 

SHIP'S ASSISTANT COOK 

SHIP'S CHIEF ENGINEER 

SHIP'S COOK 

SHIP'S ELECTRICIAN 

SHIP'S FIRST MATE 

SHIP'S SECOND MATE 

SHIP'S THIRD MATE 

1115 

1116 

1117 

1118 

0744 

5110 

5111 

5112 

6870 

0711 

2150 

4338 

4339 

8104 

8105 

8106 

8101 

3751 

4225 

4546 

4545 

4500 

4547 

4501 

4520 

4527 

4526 

4525 

17 

21 

26 

29 

11 

16 

18 

20 

20 

16 

21 

19T 

21T 

8 

12 

15 

10 

22 

18B 

24 

18 

8B 

29 

17B 

18B 

23 

20 

15 

SOCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 1 

SOCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 2 

STAFF GEOLOGIST 

STAFF NURSE 

STAGE PRODUCTION COORDINATOR 

STATIONARY BOILER OPERATOR 

STATIONARY ENGINEER 

TEACHING ASSISTANT 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 1 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 2 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 1 

TELECOMMUNICATIOS TECHNICIAN 2 

THERAPY AIDE 

TRADES/MAINTENANCE COORDINATOR 

TRADES/MAINTENANCE WORKER 1 

TRADES/MAINTENANCE WORKER 2 

TRAINING SPECIALIST 

TRANSPORTER 

TYPESETTER 

UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COORDINATOR 1 

UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COORDINATOR 2 

VET ANIMAL ATTENDANT 

VET ISOLATION FAC ANIMAL ATTENDANT 

VETERINARY TECHNICIAN 1 

VETERINARY TECHNICIAN 2 

VETERINARY TECHNICIAN 3 

VIDEOGRAPHER 1 

VIDEOGRAPHER 2 

6612 

6613 

3525 

6222 

2392 

4250 

4249 

2302 

1494 

1495 

1491 

1493 

6500 

4123 

4120 

4121 

1332 

4403 

2456 

2140 

2142 

6411 

6885 

6420 

6421 

6422 

2175 

2176 

24 

26 

18 

25 

15 

17T 

20 

13 

21 

24 

20 

23 

11 

21T 

13 

17 

26 

11B 

15 

21 

23 

12 

14B 

10 

13 

17 

18 

19 

WAREHOUSE COORDINATOR 

WAREHOUSE WORKER 

WELDER 

WORD PROCESSING TECHNICIAN 1 

WORD PROCESSING TECHNICIAN 2 

WORD PROCESSING TECHNICIAN 3 

 
 
 

4142 

4140 

4223 

0530 

0531 

0532 

15 

11 

18T 

11 

13 

15 

Human Resources Division 
Oregon University System/Oregon Public Employee Union 
 

 

OREGON UNIVERSITY SYSTEM 

FOR THE OREGON PUBLIC EMPLOYEES UNION, 

Local 503, Service Employees International 

Union, AFL-CIO, CLC 

_______________________________ 

Vice Chancellor for Finance and 

William Anslow 

Administration 

_______________________________ 

Joe Sicotte 

Associate Vice Chancellor Human Resources 

______________________________ 

Nancy Padilla, President 

______________________________ 

Alice Dale, Executive Director 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

_______________________________ 

Judy Vandenburg 

Western Oregon University 

________________________________ 

Mark Zunich 

University of Oregon 

________________________________ 

Edna Chun 

Portland State University 

________________________________ 

Terry Cavanagh, Bargaining Spokesperson 

_________________________________ 

Paul McKenna, Negotiator 

_________________________________ 
Kathie Best, Bargaining Chairperson 

Oregon Institute of Technology 

________________________________ 

Ralph Rosa 

Southern Oregon University 

________________________________ 

Carol Kroll 

Eastern Oregon University 

________________________________ 

Dave Shaw 

Oregon State University 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

________________________________ 

Shelby Wilsdon 

Oregon Institute of Technology 

 

 
 
 

_________________________________ 

Bart Lewis 

University of Oregon 

_________________________________ 

Marc Nisenfeld 

Portland State University 

_________________________________ 

Jim Brobisky 

Southern Oregon University 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

__________________________________ 

Angie Johnson 

Eastern Oregon University 

__________________________________ 

Melody Williams 

Western Oregon University 

__________________________________ 

Rod Davidson 

Oregon State University 

SUBJECT INDEX 

|A|B|C|D|E|F|G|H|I|J|K|L|M|N|O|P|Q|R|S|T|U|V|W|X|Y|Z| 

SUBJECT: ARTICLE 
A 
ACADEMIC YEAR POSITIONS: 51, 53 
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: 32 
ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PAY INCREASES: 17, 22, 57 
ARBITRATION: 18, 19, 56 

B 
BARGAINING UNIT LISTS: 10 
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE: 42 
BILINGUAL PAY: 20 
BUILDING USE: 10 
BUMPING RIGHTS: 51 

C 
CALL-BACK COMPENSATION: 30 
CAREER DEVELOPMENT: 31 
CHANGE IN CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATIONS: 55 
CHANGES TO WORK SCHEDULE: 58 
CHILD CARE: 12 
CIVIL RIGHTS: 19 
COMMUNICATION/CONSULTATION COMMITTEE: 60 
COMPENSATION PLAN CHANGES: 21 
COMPENSATORY TIME FOR OVERTIME: 25 
COMPLETE AGREEMENT/PAST PRACTICES: 5 
CONTRACTING OUT: 13 
COURT APPEARANCE: 45 

D 
DEATH IN THE FAMILY LEAVE: 42 
DEMOTION, INVOLUNTARY: 17 
DEMOTION VOLUNTARY: 39 
DEMOTION PAY: 22 
DIFFERENTIAL PAY: 20 
DIRECT APPOINTMENT: 33 
DISCIPLINE/DISCHARGE: 17  

Just Cause, Sec. 1  

•  Progressive Discipline, Sec. 1  
• 
•  Dismissal Appeals- Article 18  
•  Reduction, Suspension, Demotion, Sec. 2A  
•  Notice of Union Rights, Sec. 2B  
•  Discipline other than Dismissal,Reduction, Suspension/Demotion Appeals, Sec. 2C  
•  Predismissal Notice, Sec. 3  
•  Trial Service Exception, Sec. 4  
•  Union Representatives (Weingarten Rights), Sec. 5  

DISCRIMINATION: 19 
DISMISSAL: 17, 18 
DRUG TESTING, CDL: LOA 
DRUG TESTING, OSU SHIP PERSONNEL: LOA 
DUES DEDUCTION: 10 
E 
EDUCATION, TRAINING, & DEVELOPMENT: 64 
ELECTION DAYS: 44 
EMPLOYEE ASSIST. PROGRAM (EAP): 11 
EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL FILE: 16 
EVACUATIONS: 59 
F 
FAIR SHARE: 10 
FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT: 18, 41, LOA 
FILLING OF VACANCIES: 33 
FLEX PAYMENTS: 24 
FLEXIBLE WORK SCHEDULE: 58 
FOUR/TEN WORK SCHEDULES: 58 

G 
GENERAL COUNCIL: 10 
GEOGRAPHIC AREA FOR LAYOFF: 51 
"GOVERNOR'S" HOLIDAY/FLOATING HOLIDAY: 43 
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURES: 18  

•  Definition of, Sec. 1  
•  20-Day Filing Limit, Sec. 1  
•  Strict Observance of Timelines, Sec. 2  
•  Paid Time, Sec. 3  
•  Group Grievances, Sec. 4  
•  Grievance Processing, Sec. 5  
•  Dismissal Appeals, Sec. 5  
•  Arbitration Selection and Authority, Sec. 6  
•  Union Representation Rights, Sec. 7  
•  No Reprisals, Sec. 9  

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE: 18 
H 
HARASSMENT: 19 
HARDSHIP LEAVE: 41 
HEALTH & SAFETY: 59 
HOLIDAY PAYROLL COMPUTATION: 23 
HOLIDAYS: 43 
HOURS OF WORK: 58 
HUMAN RESOURCES INFORMATION SYSTEM: LOA 
 
I 
IMMUNIZATIONS: 59 
INCLEMENT CONDITIONS: 66 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY: 69, LOA 
INJURIES, ON-THE-JOB: 41, 61 
INSURANCE: 24 
INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES: 52 
INTERRUPTIONS OF EMPLOYMENT, TEMPORARY: 54 
IRREGULAR WORK SCHEDULES: 25, 58 
J 
JOB PROTECTION FOR ON-THE-JOB ILLNESS/INJURY: 61 
JOB ROTATION: 61, 64 
JOB SHARING: 38, LOA 
JURY DUTY: 45 
L 
LAYOFF: 51 
LAYOFF LISTS: 33, 51 
LEADWORK DIFFERENTIAL: 20 
LEAVES WITH PAY: 45 
LEAVES WITHOUT PAY: 46 
LEGISLATIVE ACTION: 6 
LENGTH OF CONTRACT: 4 
LIMITED DURATION: 37, 51 
LISTS, LAYOFF: 33, 51 
LITERATURE DISTRIBUTION: 10 

M 
MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS: 9 
MATERNITY LEAVE: 41, 46, 47 
MEALS, OSU: LOA 
MEAL PERIOD: 25, 58 
MERIT INCREASE OR DENIAL - See Annual Performance Pay: 17, 22, 57 
MILEAGE REIMBURESEMENT: 28 
MILITARY LEAVE: 46, 50 
MOVING EXPENSES: 29, 33, 51 
N 
NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES: 14 
NEW EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION: 10 
NO DISCRIMINATION: 19 
NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT: 8 
O 
OVERTIME: 25, LOA  

•  Computation: 23, 25  
•  Distribution: 25  
•  Eligibility: 25  
•  Exemption: 25  
•  Mariners OSU: 63  
•  Notification: 25, 30  
•  Penalty Pay: 25, 30  
•  Rest Period: 25  

 
P 
PARENTAL LEAVE: 47 
PARKING: 15 
PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT: 1 
PART-TIME (Job Share): 38 
PAST PRACTICES: 5 
PATERNITY LEAVE: 47 
PAY: 21, 22, 23, 57, 69 
PAY INCREASE ON PROMOTION: 22 
PAYDAY: 22 
PAYROLL COMPUTATION PROCEDURE: 23 
PEACE CORPS LEAVE: 46 
PENALTY PAY: 30 
PER DIEM: 27, 28 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS: 57 
PERFORMANCE PAY INCREASES: 17, 22, 57 
PERS COUNSELING: 48 
PERS PICKUP: 21 
PERSONAL LEAVE DAYS: 40 
PERSONNEL RECORDS: 16  

•  Official Files, Sec. 1  
•  Access to Files, Sec. 1  
•  Critical materials, Sec. 1  
•  Written Explanations, Sec. 1  

Inclusion of licenses certificates, etc., Sec. 1  

• 
•  Removal of Material, Sec. 1  
•  Supervisory files, Sec. 2  

POSITION DESCRIPTIONS AND PERFORMANCE PAY: 57 
POSTINGS (JOBS): 33, 58 
PROBATIONARY PERIOD (TRIAL SERVICE): 35, 36 
PROFESSIONAL RECOGNITION: 68 
PROMOTION: 33 
PROTECTIVE CLOTHING: 65 
PSU/SCF CHILD WELFARE PARTNERSHIP: LOA 
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (PERS): 20, 21, 52 
R 
RECALL FROM LAYOFF: 51 
RECLASSIFICATION DOWNWARD: 56 
RECLASSIFICATION UPWARD: 56 
RECOGNITION: 2 
RECOUPMENT OF WAGE & BENEFIT OVERPAYMENT: 22 
REDUCTION IN PAY: 17, 23 
REEMPLOYMENT: 23, 33 
REMOVAL FROM LISTS: 33, 51 
REPORTING COMPENSATION: 30 
REPRIMAND: 20 
REST PERIOD: 25, 58 
RETIREMENT PICKUP (PERS PICKUP): 21, 52 
RETIREMENT COUNSELING LEAVE: 48 
RETURN TO WORK FROM ON-THE-JOB INJURIES: 61 
S 
SAFETY & HEALTH: 59, 61 
SAFETY COMMITTEES: 59, 61 
SALARY ADMINISTRATION: 22 
SALARY ADVANCE: 22 
SALARY ELIGIBILITY DATE: 22, 57 
SALARY INCREASE: 21, 22, 57 
SALARY ON DEMOTION: 22 
SALARY ON PROMOTION: 22 
SALARY ON RECALL FROM DEMOTION: 22 
SCHEDULING OF COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: 25 
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT: 3 
SEARCH & RESCUE: 49 
SEASONAL/INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES: 22, 51, 52 
SELECTIVE SALARY ADJUSTMENTS: 21 
SENIORITY CALCULATIONS/LAYOFF: 51 
SEPARABILITY: 7 
SEVERELY HANDICAPPED APPOINTMENT: 33 
SEXUAL HARASSMENT: 19 
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: 19 
SHIFT CHANGE & SHUT DOWN TIME: 30, 58 
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL: 20 
SHOW UP COMPENSATION: 30 
SICK LEAVE: 41 
See leave with/without pay, 45, 56 
SPECIAL DUTY PAY: 20 

SPECIAL PROVISIONS, OSU-Sailing Complement: 63 
SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS PAY: 20 
STANDBY DUTY: 26 
STEWARD CONFERENCE; 10 
STEWARD RIGHTS: 10 
STRIKES/LOCKOUTS: 8 
SUSPENSIONS WITH/WITHOUT PAY: 17 
 
T 
TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE/RETRAINING: 67 
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES: 2, 35, 51 
TERM OF AGREEMENT: 4 
TOOLS: 65 
TRAINING, EDUCATION, & DEVELOPMENT: 64 
TRANSFERS: 33 
TRAVEL EXPENSES: 27 
TRIAL SERVICE: 35, 36 
U 
UNIFORMS: 65 
UNION FLEX: 24 
UNION LEAVE/GENERAL COUNCIL: 10 
UNION PRESIDENT'S LEAVE: 10 
UNION REPRESENTATION: 10 
UNION RIGHTS: 10 
UNION STEWARDS: 10 
V 
VACANCIES: 33 
VACATION: 50 
VACATION DONATIONS: 41 
VETERANS' PREFERENCE: 34, 46, 50 
VIDEO DISPLAY TERMINALS: 62 
VOTING: 44 
W 
WAGES: 21 
WEATHER CONDITIONS: 66 
WORKDAY/WORKWEEK: 58 
WORK OUT-OF-CLASSIFICATION: 20 
WORK PLANS: 22, 57 
WORK SCHEDULES: 58 
WORKERS' COMPENSATION: 41, 61 
WORKWEEK: 25 
WRIST RESTS: 62  
 

