Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

44

Language English

Country United States

State

NJ

Union AFSCME (American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees) AFL-CIO

Local Local 956, Princeton University Library Assistants

Library assistants, clerical 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Princeton University
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 1998

EndYear 2002

Source

http://www.princeton.edu/hr/contracts/library/

Original_format HTML (multipart)

Notes

Contact

Full text contract begins on following page.

Agreement between Princeton University and 

Princeton University Library Assistants/American 

Federation of State, County and Muncipal Employees 

LOCAL 956, AFL-CIO 

July 1, 1998 - June 30, 2002 

 

Table of Contents 

  Article I - Agreement 

  Article II - Purpose 

  Article III - Recognition 

  Article IV - Non-Discrimination 

  Article V - Wages and Classification 

  Article VI - Union Rights 

  Article VII - Informal Dispute Resolution and Grievance 

Procedure 

  Article VIII - Seniority, Promotions, Job Posting, 

Reclassifications 

  Article IX - Working Conditions 

  Article X - Safety and Health 

  Article XI - Library Education and Training 

  Article XII - Leaves of Absence With Pay 

  Article XIII - Leaves of Absence Without Pay 

  Article XIV - Benefits 

  Article XV - Miscellaneous 

  Article XVI - Management Rights 

  Article XVII - No Strike/No Lockout 

  Article XVIII - Negotiations 

  Article XIX - Duration of Agreement/Side Letter 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE I 

AGREEMENT 

This Agreement entered into this August 13, 1998 between the TRUSTEES OF 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY, hereinafter referred to as the "University" and 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY LIBRARY ASSISTANTS/AFSCME LOCAL 956, 

AFL/CIO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union". 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE II 

 

 

PURPOSE 

It is the purpose of this Agreement to promote and insure harmonious relations, 
cooperation, communication and understanding between the University and the 
employees covered hereby, for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect 
to compensation, hours of work and other conditions of employment as herein 
provided. 

 

 

ARTICLE III 

RECOGNITION 

 

The University recognizes Local 956 affiliated with the American Federation of 
State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO and its Council No. 73, as the 
exclusive representative for all regular and term appointment full-time and part-
time library employees as defined in the job classifications of Article V. 

Full time regular employees are employees filling approved, budgeted, continuing 
positions on the regular payroll who work 36 1/4 hours per week for twelve (12) 
months of the year. 

Part time regular employees are employees filling approved, budgeted, 
continuing positions on the regular payroll who work less then 36 1/4 hours but 
more than eighteen and one-eighth (18-1/8) hours per week, or less than twelve 
(12) months of the year. 

Term appointment positions, whether or not funded from the Library's regular 
personnel operating budget, are either subject to annual renewal or are grant 
positions funded for a specified period of time: in all cases term appointment 
employees are hired with a termination date specified at the time of 
employment. 

Full-time term appointment employees are employees filling approved, budgeted 
positions on the regular payroll who work 36 1/4 hours per week for twelve (12) 
months of the year with a termination date specified at the time of employment. 

Part-time term appointment employees are employees filling approved, budgeted 
positions on the regular payroll who work less than 36 1/4 hours per week but at 
least 18 1/8 hours per week, or less than twelve (12) months of the year with a 
termination date specified at the time of employment. 

 

 
 

ARTICLE IV 

NON-DISCRIMINATION 

Neither party to this agreement shall discriminate against any employee or 
applicant on the basis of sex, racial or ethnic background, age, religion, marital 
status, political views, sexual orientation or affectation, veteran status, or 
disability unrelated to job requirements. Complaints of such discrimination may 
be pursued in accordance with the appropriate grievance, mediation or 
arbitration process as discussed and agreed upon between the parties. 

Princeton University policy and procedures regarding sexual harassment for 
Faculty and Staff shall apply to employees covered by the collective bargaining 
agreement. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE V 

WAGES AND CLASSIFICATION 

Promotional Increases 

Wage Ranges 

 

 

Wages 

New Hires 

 

A. Promotional Increases 

Employees who are promoted shall receive an increase of 7% for a one grade 
promotion, 10% for a two grade promotion, or 15% for a three grade promotion. 

B. Wage Ranges 

Effective July 1, 1998, the salary ranges for each pay grade will be as follows: 

Title 
Libr. Clerical Asst. 
Library Clerk II 
Spec. Coll. Asst. I  
Conservation 
Assistant 
Libr. Off. Asst. II 
Library Secretary 
Libr. Receptionist  
Prebindery Asst. 
Conservation 
Technician 
Receipts Assistant 
Spec. Coll. Asst. II 
Library Unit 
Coordinator 
Library Repr. 
Sp/Micro 
Libr. Repr. Sp/Dup. 
Libr. Comp. Rm. Op. 
Fin. & Off. Svcs. 
Asst. 
Library Photo Spec.  
Sr. Libr. Secretary 

Pay Grade 

B  

C 

Min. 

$17,794.40  

Max 

$23,251.00 

$18,699.20 

$26,052.00 

D 

$20,735.00 

$28,705.00  

E 

$22,469.20 

$32,547.00 

Libr. Off. Asst. III 
Bibliographic Spec. 
Spec. Coll. Asst. III 
Preservation Spec.  
Spec. Coll. Asst. IV 
Sr. Bibliographic 
Spec. 
Photoservices Spec. 
Libr. Secretary Spec. 
Sr. Conservation 
Tech. 
Sr. Preservation 
Spec. 
Sr. Libr. Comp. Rm. 
Op. 
Fin. & Off. Svcs. 
Spec. 
JSTOR Prod. Tech.  
Sr. Bibliographic 
Spec. II 
Spec. Coll. Asst. V  

 

 

 

F 

$24,184.55 

$35,646.00 

G 

$26,371.15 

$38,850.00 

Effective July 1, 1999, the salary ranges for each pay grade will be as follows: 

 

Title 
Libr. Clerical Asst. 
Library Clerk II 
Spec. Coll. Asst. I  
Conservation 
Assistant 
Libr. Off. Asst. II 
Library Secretary 
Libr. Receptionist  
Prebindery Asst. 
Conservation 
Technician 

Pay Grade 

B 

C 

D 

Min. 

$18,510.70 

Max 

$24,181.00 

$19,453.20 

$27,094.00 

$21,564.40 

$29,854.00 

Receipts Assistant 
Spec. Coll. Asst. II 
Library Unit 
Coordinator 
Library Repr. 
Sp/Micro 
Libr. Repr. Sp/Dup. 
Libr. Comp. Rm. Op. 
Fin. & Off. Svcs. 
Asst. 
Library Photo Spec.  
Sr. Libr. Secretary 
Libr. Off. Asst. III 
Bibliographic Spec. 
Spec. Coll. Asst. III 
Preservation Spec.  
Spec. Coll. Asst. IV 
Sr. Bibliographic 
Spec. 
Photoservices Spec. 
Libr. Secretary Spec. 
Sr. Conservation 
Tech. 
Sr. Preservation 
Spec. 
Sr. Libr. Comp. Rm. 
Op. 
Fin. & Off. Svcs. 
Spec. 
JSTOR Prod. Tech.  
Sr. Bibliographic 
Spec. II 
Spec. Coll. Asst. V  

 

 

 

E 

F 

$23,374.00 

$33,849.00 

$25,145.90 

$37,072.00 

G 

$27,426.75 

$40,405.00 

Salary ranges for the last two years of the contract will be discussed as part of 
the agreement to survey Library Assistant wages during the second contract 
year. 

C. Wages 

Effective July 1, 1998, employees whose current salary falls on or below the 
market midpoint as established by the University's compensation survey will 
receive a 5.0% salary increase (see below). Employees whose current salary is 
above that midpoint will receive a 3.0% increase. 

Effective July 1, 1999, employees whose salary falls on or below the revised 
midpoint as established by the contract will receive a 4.0% salary increase (see 
below). Employees whose salary is above that midpoint will receive a 3.0% 
increase. 

Effective July 1, 2000, each employee will receive a 2.0% salary increase. In 
addition there will be a 1.5% merit pool to be distributed based on the 
employee's performance against a set of objectives and standards. 

Effective July 1, 2001, each employee will receive a 1.5% salary increase. In 
addition there will be a 1.5% merit pool to be distributed based on the 
employee's performance against a set of objectives and standards. 

A letter of agreement stipulates that a salary survey will be conducted during the 
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000 contract year and the wage article of the contract 
may be reopened for discussion 60 days before June 30, 2000 based on the 
survey results. Any such discussion will not result in lower increases than those 
outlined above. 

These are annual FTE midpoints that will determine the percentage of increase 
an employee will get July 1, 1998 and July 1, 1999. 

Pay Grade 

July 1, 1998 

July 1, 1999 

B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G 

D. New Hires 

20,999 
24,298 
24,953  
25,579 
29,783  
32,761 

21,892 
25,285 
25,956 
26,597 
30,971 
34,081 

Upon hire or promotion, the employee will receive a job description for the work 
that he or she is to perform. 

Generally when new staff are hired the salary offer is made at the entry point in 
the range for the particular position. However, there are occasions when the 
experience and skills of the new hire require salary consideration further into the 
range for the position. If such consideration will place the new hire beyond the 
midpoint for the range, the Human Resources Librarian will meet with the Union 
President or designee to discuss the situation before the offer is extended. In the 
case of rehires this will not be necessary. 

When an employee takes on the primary responsibilities of a job in a higher 
classification for an extended period of time, the employee will be compensated 
at the higher rate; that is, the appropriate promotion percentage increase will be 
applied to the employee's base salary. It must be clear that the employee is 
doing the work which makes the job higher in classification and pay. It also must 
be clear that the period of time will require the employee to be involved in the 
full scope of the job. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE VI 

UNION RIGHTS 

Union Security 
Dues Checkoff 

Error! Bookmark not defined.Error! Bookmark not defined.Error! 

Union Right to Information 

Bookmark not defined. 

 

 

A. Union Security 

All employees covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union, and all 
employees covered by this Agreement who subsequently join the Union, shall 
maintain their membership in good standing as a condition of continued 
employment. All employees hired after April 24, 1978 shall become members of 
the Union no later than the 30th day following the beginning of such 

employment and thereafter maintain their membership in the Union in good 
standing as a condition of continued employment. For the purposes of this 
article, an employee shall be considered a member of the Union in good standing 
if she/he tenders her/his periodic union dues uniformly required as a condition of 
membership. 

An employee who has failed to maintain membership in good standing as 
required by this Article shall be discharged within twenty (20) calendar days 
following receipt of a written demand from the Union requesting that she/he will 
be discharged from hers/his position in the bargaining unit if, during such period, 
the required dues have not been tendered. 

B. Dues Checkoff 

The University agrees to deduct the biweekly Union membership dues from the 
pay of those employees who individually request in writing subsequent to the 
signing of this Agreement that such deductions be made. The amounts to be 
deducted shall be certified to the University in writing by the Union, and the 
aggregate deductions from all employees shall be remitted to AFSCME Council 
No. 73, Trenton, N.J., together with a list of names of all employees for whom 
the deductions are made. This authorization shall be irrevocable for as long as 
permitted by applicable law. 

The Union agrees to indemnify and save the University harmless against any and 
all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise out of, or by 
reason of, action taken or not taken by the University in compliance with the 
provision of this Article, in reliance upon dues deduction authorizations which 
have been furnished it. 

C. Union Right To Information 

The University shall provide to the Union, upon written request, any information 
which is legally required for the Union to function as the collective bargaining 
representative of employees covered by this Agreement. 

The University shall notify the Union on a current basis of all hires, promotions, 
reclassifications, transfers, terminations, leaves of absence in excess of thirty 
(30) calendar days duration and temporary disabilities in excess of eight (8) 
calendar days within the bargaining unit. Such notification shall include the 
employee's name, work unit, job classification, and date of appointment, 
termination, or first and/or last day of leave. 

In individual cases relating to the hire, promotion, transfer, discharge, layoff and 
scheduling of employees, specific information as to seniority and qualifications 
shall be made available to the Union upon request. 

The Union shall receive on a once-a-month basis the available copies of 
Princeton University Library Bulletins, Library Council Summaries, minutes of 
departmental and committee meetings, and annual reports. 

D. Union Bulletin Board Space 

The University shall furnish and maintain adequate bulletin board space in 
designated work areas to be used exclusively by the local Union. There shall be 
two (2) such bulletin boards in Firestone, one to be located in the Staff Lounge 
and one to be located on the first floor at a mutually agreeable location. In 
addition there shall be bulletin board space in each branch library. 

In addition the Library will provide the union with a listserv for its membership 
and WEB space for posting union information. 

E. Union Use of University Facilities 

The University will provide adequate meeting space for Union general 
membership meetings subject to availability. Where the providing of such space 
requires additional labor cost to the University, such additional cost shall be 
borne by the Union. 

F. AFSCME Representatives on Campus 

Representatives of AFSCME or the Council may request permission of the Vice 
President for Human Resources or designated representative to visit the 
University campus and library areas for the purpose of ascertaining whether or 
not this Agreement is being observed or to assist in processing grievances. Such 
permission will not be unreasonably withheld. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE VII 

INFORMAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION 

AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 

 

Mediation 

Grievance and Arbitration 

Informal Discussions 

Stewards 

 

A. Mediation 

The Library Administration and the Union seek to broaden and improve the 
means of problem solving and dispute resolution between managers/supervisors 
and staff by developing the use of a mediation process. The mediation process 
provides for a resolution based on an agreement reached by the parties with the 
aid of a neutral third party trained in mediation. It also provides a forum in which 
the parties may seek to resolve problems or disagreements which often lead to 
formal grievances, but are in themselves not grievable under the contract. 

When a problem arises in the workplace, initially every effort should be made to 
address and resolve the matter through direct and forthright communication 
between the affected staff member and the immediate supervisor and/or other 
appropriate management personnel. It is recognized, however, that resolution in 
this manner is not always possible. During the term of the contract, mediation 
will be available, through the University Ombuds Office, as a first opportunity to 
address and work through staff-supervisor disputes where the staff member and 
the supervisor have been unsuccessful in their attempts to resolve a problem. 
Support staff or supervisors may request mediation in response to a situation 
either perceives is presenting difficulty in the work relationship. The members of 
the Labor-Management Committee may also review such situations and counsel 
the parties to seek mediation. 

If a situation occurs for which mediation is being considered, the staff member 
or supervisor should contact the Human Resources Librarian or a Union officer. 
The Human Resources Librarian will review the request with the Union or the 
parties and will be responsible for contacting the University Ombuds Office to 
have a mediator assigned to work with the parties. Generally, when either party 
requests mediation both will be expected to attend at least one mediation 
meeting. However, there may be situations when the Library Administration and 
the Union need to discuss the viability of any mediation. 

The support staff member may choose to have a Union representative present, 
and the supervisor may choose to have a Management representative present at 
any mediation meetings. However, representatives do not actively participate in 
the mediation process. The mediator will not decide issues between a staff 
member and a supervisor, but will facilitate discussion and any mutually 

agreeable resolution the parties may seek. If the parties reach an agreement 
through mediation, the mediator will write up the agreement and have the 
parties sign the agreement. Subsequently, if either party believes the other has 
broken the agreement, that party must contact the mediator. When an 
agreement is broken, the party breaking the agreement may be subject to 
discipline regardless of any further efforts by the mediator.  

If there is no resolution to a problem for which a staff member or the Union 
initiated mediation, and the dispute involves a contract violation or issue of 
contract interpretation, the staff member may then resort to the formal 
grievance procedure as described in Section B of this Article. A staff member 
who decides to pursue a formal grievance must submit the grievance in writing 
at the appropriate step within 15 working days of the last mediation meeting. 
The Library Administration and the Union recognize that certain grievances 
pertaining to a violation or interpretation of contract terms cannot, from the 
outset, be resolved through mediation or at steps 1 and 2 of the formal 
grievance procedure. If both parties agree, such cases will be pursued starting at 
step 3 in the formal grievance procedure. 

B. Grievance and Arbitration 

A dispute arising out of the interpretation, meaning, application or claimed 
violation of any provision of this Agreement shall be defined as a grievance and 
shall be handled in the following manner: 

Step 1 - An employee with or without the steward or local union president or 
vice president, shall first present and discuss the grievance, either with the 
immediate supervisor or, if the local Union President and the Human Resources 
Librarian mutually agree that it would be more appropriate, with the Human 
Resources Librarian, within fifteen (15) working days after the occurrence of the 
event or within fifteen (15) working days after the employee should reasonably 
have had knowledge of the event out of which the grievance arises. An oral 
decision shall be given by the supervisor, or when appropriate, by the Human 
Resources Librarian within five (5) working days thereafter. If a grievable case 
has not been resolved in mediation under Section A of this Article, the grievant 
may advance to Step 2 of the grievance procedure. In such a case, the mediator 
may advise those hearing the grievance as to what he or she understands the 
issue(s) to be between the concerned parties, but may not comment on the 
issues with the intent of influencing the outcome of the grievance. 

Step 2 - If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, the grievance shall be reduced 
to writing and signed by the Steward or a local Union officer and the written 
grievance presented to the University Librarian or designated representative 
within five (5) working days after the date of the oral decision. A written answer 

to the grievance shall be given to the Union by the University Librarian or 
designated representative after in-person discussions or meetings between the 
parties within ten (10) working days after presentation of the written grievance. 
At this step the employee may be represented by a steward and by the local 
Union President, or designee. 

Step 3 - If the grievance is not settled at Step 2 the Union shall, within five (5) 
working days following the date of the written answer of the University Librarian, 
submit the written grievance to the University's Vice President for Human 
Resources or designated representative. The University's Vice President for 
Human Resources or designated representative shall hold in-person discussions 
or meetings between the parties and give the Union a final written answer within 
(10) working days after receipt of the grievance. At this step the employee may 
be represented by a steward, the local Union president or designee, and a 
representative of the AFSCME Council. 

The immediate supervisor or Human Resources Librarian may have another 
member of the management staff present if the employee has a representative 
from the Union. Any member of management who makes a decision of a formal 
grievance may not be present at a prior step in the formal grievance procedure. 

If the grievance is not settled at Step 3, the matter may be submitted to 
arbitration as follows: The Union's written demand to arbitrate must be given to 
the University's Vice President for Human Resources within fifteen (15) working 
days after the Step 3 answer. The Union shall simultaneously request the Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a panel of arbitrators from which 
the arbitrator shall be chosen in accordance with the rules and procedures of 
FMCS. The University and Union may mutually agree to request an additional 
panel of arbitrators if the first list is unsatisfactory. The arbitrator is requested to 
submit the decision within thirty (30) calendar days of the close of the hearing. 
The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the University, the 
Union and the employee or employees involved. The arbitrator is limited to 
determining matters concerning the application, meaning or interpretation of the 
Agreement and in no way can add to, delete or alter any aspect of this 
Agreement. The University and the Union shall divide equally in pay the fee and 
expenses of the arbitrator. All other expenses shall be paid by the party incurring 
them. 

If the successive steps of the grievance and arbitration procedure are not utilized 
by the Union within the time limits provided, the grievance shall be considered 
withdrawn and this withdrawal shall be binding upon the University, the Union 
and the employee or employees involved. The time limits may be extended by 
mutual agreement of the parties. The Union itself may submit a grievance 
directly on behalf of a group of employees who are all directly affected. Time lost 

from work by the grievant, steward and/or Union president or designee to 
process the grievance at all steps and to be present at the arbitration hearing will 
result in no loss of pay. 

The grievance procedure established here shall be the sole and exclusive formal 
remedy available to an employee or the Union for resolving disputes arising 
under this Agreement. If any subject matter which is or might be alleged as a 
grievance is instituted in any administrative action before a court, a 
governmental board, or agency, then such administrative procedure shall be the 
sole remedy and that grievance under this Agreement shall no longer exist. 

C. Informal Discussions 

Nothing in this Agreement should be interpreted to preclude informal attempts to 
resolve grievances or disputes which do not pertain to questions of 
interpretation, meaning, application or claimed violation of this Agreement. In 
such cases, employees may seek resolution of the problem with their immediate 
supervisor, Division or Department Head or a representative of the Human 
Resources Office. If the employee and the supervisor mutually agree a steward 
or Union Representative may be present at the informal discussion. 

D. Stewards 

The Union will identify eight (8) stewards so that no undue hardship occurs in 
any work unit. Reasonable attempts shall be made by stewards to conduct Union 
business outside working time. The University recognizes that this will not always 
be possible in that there may be a need to resolve a grievance during working 
hours and for that purpose each steward and officer will be allowed reasonable 
paid time to conduct business under Step 1. Reasonable paid time means up to 
one hour per week per steward and officer. It is recognized that additional paid 
time for any individual steward and officer may be necessary. However, the total 
paid time spent by the stewards and officers at this step should not exceed 15 
hours per week. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE VIII 

 

SENIORITY, PROMOTIONS, JOB POSTING,  

RECLASSIFICATIONS 

Seniority 

Promotions/Transfers 

Job Posting 

Position Reclassification 

New or Changed Job Classifications 

 

A. Seniority 

Section 1 - Employees covered by this Agreement shall accumulate the 
following categories of Seniority: 

a. Work Unit Seniority - length of service within the work units. 

b. Bargaining Unit Seniority - length of service within the 
bargaining unit. 

c. University Seniority - length of service with the University. 

*A list of current "Library Work Units with Bargaining Unit Personnel" shall be 
posted on the bulletin board in the Human Resources Office in Firestone Library 
and on all union bulletin boards. 
"Length of Service" above shall mean continuous service from the original date 
of hire, with the following qualifications applying to employees who have 
terminated and been rehired: 

a. An employee who has terminated from a bargaining unit position 
and has been rehired into a bargaining unit position within ninety 
(90) calendar days shall have Bargaining Unit Seniority from the 
employee's original date of hire except for the intervening period. 

b. An employee who has terminated from a bargaining unit position 
and has been rehired into a bargaining unit position more than 
ninety (90) calendar days after and within five (5) years of 
termination shall begin to accumulate Bargaining Unit Seniority as a 
new employee. One (1) calendar year after being rehired into the 
bargaining unit, the employee's Bargaining Unit Seniority previous 
to termination shall be added to that which has accumulated since 
the employee's return. 

c. The above qualifications shall apply to Work Unit Seniority when 
the employee has terminated from and has been rehired into the 
same work unit. 

Section 2 - Part-time employees 

a. Any regular part-time employee shall accumulate University 
Seniority from the original date of hire. 

b. A regular part-time employee shall accumulate Bargaining Unit 
Seniority and/or Work Unit Seniority on the basis of hours worked. 
That is, a regular part-time employee who is a member of the 
bargaining unit shall have Bargaining Unit Seniority and/or Work 
Unit Seniority calculated by accumulating the number of hours 
worked and converting this number to weeks, months, and/or 
years of service. For purpose of any such conversion, thirty-six and 
one quarter (36 1/4) hours equal one week. 

c. If such a part-time employee becomes a full-time employee, 
those part-time hours shall be added to Bargaining Unit Seniority 
and/or Work Unit Seniority as a full-time employee. 

Section 3 - Leaves Without Pay:  
An employee who has taken an approved leave of absence in excess of thirty 
(30) days without pay shall, upon return to a position in the bargaining unit, 
wherever applicable, have University, Bargaining Unit, and/or Work Unit Seniority 
from the employee's original date of hire, except for the intervening period of 
absence. 
Section 4 - The University may find it necessary to hire employees on an hourly 
basis. If such an hourly employee becomes a permanent employee who regularly 
works more than eighteen and one eighth (18-1/8) hours per week, that 
employee's seniority shall date from the date of employment as a regular 
employee. 
 
B. Promotions/Transfers 
The library is committed to implementation of the principle of promoting 
employees from within the bargaining unit to vacant positions therein. Applicants 
within the bargaining unit shall be given preference over applicants outside the 
bargaining unit. However, if after an evaluation of the comparative qualifications, 
skills and abilities of an applicant within the bargaining unit and an applicant 
outside the bargaining unit, it is determined that the applicant outside the 
bargaining unit is better qualified for the vacant position, then in such case, the 
applicant outside the bargaining unit may be offered the position. In any 

instance where such offer is accepted, a grievance may be initiated as to 
whether the applicant outside the bargaining unit is better qualified. 
In making a selection among qualified internal candidates for promotion/transfer 
the following standards shall apply: When two (2) or more employees apply for a 
position and meet all of the qualifications for the job stated in the job posting 
and the skills, abilities and performance are relatively equal, the person with the 
most bargaining unit seniority shall be offered the position. 
All internal employee applicants who meet all the qualifications for the job stated 
in the job posting shall receive an interview with the prospective supervisor. 
When more than five (5) internal employees apply for the same position the 
prospective supervisor may decide only to interview the five (5) most qualified 
internal employees who are applying for the open position. An internal employee 
who is an applicant for a position, but who is not offered that position, shall be 
advised in writing as to the reasons for that rejection, provided the applicant 
makes such a request for the explanation in writing. 
When an employee is promoted, but does not successfully complete the 
probationary period, either in the supervisor's opinion or by the choice of the 
employee, the employee shall return to the previous job classification or another 
position in the same salary grade for which the employee is qualified, subject to 
availability. The employee's bargaining unit seniority and work unit seniority will 
continue to accumulate during such period. 
The promotional procedure shall be implemented in a manner consistent with the 
Affirmative Action Program. 
 
C. Job Posting 
When an opening occurs in any job title covered by this Agreement, it shall be 
posted on the bulletin board in the Human Resources Office in Firestone Library. 
The Recording Secretary of the Union and all library locations outside Firestone 
shall be notified of all job openings within the bargaining unit as they occur, i.e., 
immediately after the initial posting of such positions. 
Notices of all vacancies and new positions covered by this Agreement shall list 
any special requirements beyond those stated in the classification description. 
They shall also list, for each such vacancy and position, salary level, work unit 
and hours of work if less than full time. In addition, notices of all vacancies and 
all new positions covered by this Agreement shall clearly indicate how and where 
to apply, and the time period during which an employee should submit an 
application. 
All job openings must be posted according to the provision of this Section before 
an offer of employment may be extended to a candidate, with the following 
exceptions: 

a. Reclassification within a work unit. When an individual is 
reclassified within her or his current position, this position shall not 
be posted. 

b. Special situations, i.e., placing employees covered by this 
Agreement who have been identified for layoff, or placing 
employees covered by this Agreement returning from leave such as 
temporary disability, worker's compensation, military leave, layoff, 
or instances of temporary promotions. 

c. When a position has been posted within thirty (30) days it is not 
required to be posted again if the position is to be offered to a 
bargaining unit employee. 

Employees shall normally be expected and encouraged to remain in their current 
positions for one year before they are promoted or transferred through job 
posting. However, should promotional or transfer opportunities become available 
to employees after they have completed six (6) months in their current positions, 
they will be considered for promotional or transfer opportunities through job 
posting. The following criteria shall be used for allowing employees to be 
considered for transfer or promotion before completing six (6) months in their 
current positions: 

a. The transfer or promotion should be in the interest of the 
Library. 

b. Current supervisor should agree to the transfer or promotion. 

c. The individual should be more suitably qualified for the position 
into which she or he moves. 

The above criteria shall apply throughout all pay grades. Interpretation of the 
above criteria in individual cases shall be grievable according to the grievance 
and arbitration provisions of this Agreement (Article VII). 
 
D. Position Reclassification 
Composition of the Classification Review Board 
Library reclassification decisions for bargaining unit positions will be made by a 
Classification Review Board. The Board will consist of three (3) Library support 
staff appointed by the Union and three (3) Library professional/supervisory staff 
appointed by Library administration. 
Each Board member will receive training in the principles of classification review, 
and will become familiar with Library support staff position descriptions. In 
addition the Board will meet as needed with the University Director of 
Compensation or designee to discuss classification issues or concerns which arise 
in the review process. 
Board members will be appointed for a three (3) year term. To ensure continuity 
and proper training of new members, two members will leave the Board and two 

new members will replace them at the beginning of each academic year. Past 
members may substitute for a current member who has to leave the Board for 
unplanned reasons, but such replacements are only to serve out the term of the 
leaving member. Past members may serve more than one full term, but any 
repeat terms may not be consecutive. 
Review by the Board 
Reclassification proposals must be received by the Board fifteen (15) work days 
prior to the Board's scheduled bi-monthly meeting. The Board will meet on the 
third Thursday of every other month beginning with February. Board members 
may decide on other scheduled meetings as necessary for the completion of 
Board business. 
Reclassification proposals may be initiated by the affected staff member, the 
supervisor, or the Union. In any case the position analysis form will be submitted 
to the Board through the supervisor. Copies of the request form and the 
supervisor's cover memo must go to both the Union President and the Human 
Resources Librarian. All parties will be informed as to the next meeting of the 
Board and the date by which a response can be expected. 
Generally, review by the Board is a review of the submitted analysis form. Staff 
members and supervisors may find it useful to read through existing position 
descriptions (which are available in the Library Human Resources Office or 
through the Board ) before completing the analysis form. In some cases Board 
review may require a desk audit, including an interview with the supervisor, the 
incumbent, or both. Determination of relevant information and or the necessary 
method of review is by consensus of Board members. 
If a position is to be reclassified, the effective date will be the first Monday after 
the decision is communicated to the Library Human Resources Office. In cases 
where submission of a request for reclassification is delayed by a supervisor, the 
employee will be apprised of the delay. If subsequently approved, the 
reclassification will be retroactive to the first pay period following the first Board 
meeting after the date the proposal was initially signed by both immediate 
supervisor and employee. 
Classification Decisions 
Classification decisions by the Board shall be by the consensus of the members. 
When the Board reaches a decision, it will be communicated to the supervisor 
and the staff member. If the application is denied, the decision, along with a 
brief rationale, must be in writing.  
If the Board is unable to reach a consensus, the review request with a statement 
of the issues will be forwarded to the Human Resources Librarian. Based on an 
analysis of the forwarded materials and any other relevant data, the Human 
Resources Librarian, in collaboration with the University's Director of 
Compensation or designee, will issue a decision within ten (10) working days of 
notification from the Board. 
Appeal of the decision of the Human Resources Librarian and the University's 
Director of Compensation or designee may be made by either the staff member, 

Union, or supervisor. The appeal will be made to the Director of Labor Relations 
or designee who may consult with relevant parties before making a decision. The 
Director of Labor Relations or designee must respond to the appeal in writing 
within five (5) working days of the hearing unless there is an agreed upon 
extension. Failure to respond in a timely manner will move the appeal decision to 
the final level of the appeal process. 
The petitioner may request a final appeal of the Director of Labor Relations or 
designee decision. This request must be made within ten (10) working days of 
receiving the response. An independent consultant who is expert in 
compensation and classification, and who is mutually agreed upon by the 
University and the Union, will review the classification request and all relevant 
materials. 
The consultant will consider each case appealed to him/her on its individual 
merit, and any determination by the consultant will not be applicable to other 
employees. The consultant will conduct hearings in an expeditious manner, and 
will submit findings and a binding decision to the parties within thirty (30) 
calendar days of the hearing date, or within any agreed upon extension period. 
Classification of Vacated Positions 
Once vacated, a position may be reclassified with notification to the Board. The 
Human Resources Librarian will review all vacated positions with supervisors 
prior to posting, and will notify the Classification Review Board when the new 
position description form is completed. When the position is filled, if the new 
incumbent believes the duties are those of a different classification, the 
incumbent may follow the classification review procedures as outlined in this 
Article. 
 
E. New or Changed Job Classifications 
In the event any new job classifications are created or any classifications 
changed, the University will notify the Union of any such proposed change and 
the proposed rate of pay for such classifications. The University will, upon 
request, meet with the Union to negotiate the appropriate rate of pay for any 
new or changed job classifications. If no agreement is reached the Union may 
grieve the implementation of the new or changed position and pay rate. 
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE IX 

WORKING CONDITIONS 

 

Hours of Work 

Overtime 

Lunch and Rest Periods 

Layoff and Recall 

Contracting and Subcontracting 

Automation 

Discharge and Discipline 

Probationary Period 
Personnel Records 

Rules and Regulations 

 

A. Hours of Work 

The work week shall consist of 36 1/4 hours for all full-time employees and at 
least eighteen and one-eighth (18-1/8) hours for all regular part-time employees. 
The work week shall commence at 12:01 a.m. Monday and end at 12:00 
midnight Sunday. 

Starting Time for Work: Employees' starting time for work will normally be 
established on a semester basis. Employees who are scheduled to work Monday 
to Friday and whose normal hours fall between 7:45 and 6:00 p.m. may establish 
a schedule that begins at 7:45, 8:00, 8:15, 8:30, 8:45, or 9:00 a.m. with the 
approval of the supervisor in accordance with the work requirements of the work 
unit. Where there is a conflict over the scheduling of starting times within the 
work unit, the employee's request shall be granted on the basis of greatest work 
unit seniority, in accordance with the work requirements of the work unit. 

The University may schedule hours of work other than those set forth above in 
accordance with the work requirements of the work unit, the Library and the 
University. Such changes made in accordance with the work requirements shall 
not be unreasonable, arbitrary or capricious. The University will notify the Union 
fifteen (15) working days in advance of any change in the scheduling of hours of 
work and will, upon request, meet and discuss the changes with the Union prior 
to their implementation. 

The University policy on flexible work schedules (HR Policy 5.14) applies to 
members of the bargaining unit. 

Any employee may, at the supervisor's discretion, make up time lost during the 
normal work week within the same work week. Such approval shall not be 
unreasonably withheld. 

B. Overtime 

In the event an employee is required to work on regularly scheduled holidays 
designated by the University, that employee shall have the option of being paid 
at the rate of time and one-half in addition to the employee's regular pay for all 
hours worked on the holiday or time and one-half the employee's regular pay for 
hours worked on the holiday plus credit for an additional day off with regular pay 
to be scheduled with the approval of the supervisor. 

1. Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a regularly 
scheduled work day will be paid at time and one half, except where 
the normal work day is more than eight (8) hours. 

2. Hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in one work week will 
be paid time and one half. 

3. Hours worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive day worked in 
one work week will be paid at double the straight time rate. 

4. In the event an employee is required to work on the regularly 
scheduled holidays designated by the University, that employee 
shall have the option of being paid at the rate of time and one half 
in addition to the employee's regular pay for all hours worked on 
the holiday or time and one half the employee's regular pay for 
hours worked on the holiday plus credit for an additional day off 
with regular pay to be scheduled with the approval of the 
supervisor. 

5. Paid absences shall be considered as time worked for purposes 
of computing overtime. Unpaid absences shall not be considered 
time worked in computing overtime. 

Overtime shall be distributed as equitably as possible given the work 
requirements of the work unit. Overtime hours shall be offered to employees in a 
work unit on a rotating basis, starting with the employee with the greatest work 
unit seniority able to perform the overtime work. If no employee accepts the 
offer, the overtime shall be assigned by inverse work unit seniority on a rotating 
basis. Any overtime opportunity which is declined by an employee shall be 
counted as time worked for purposes of recording equitable distribution of 
overtime. 
Employees shall have the option of taking time off as compensation for overtime 
work on an hour for hour basis in the same work week with supervisory approval 
based on the work requirements of the work unit. Employees may likewise make 
up time lost during the work week on an hour for hour basis without regard to 
the overtime provisions of this Agreement with supervisory approval. Such 
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The daily overtime provision shall 

not apply where an employee has voluntarily selected a schedule in excess of 
eight (8) hours per day. 
 
C. Lunch and Rest Periods 
Generally, break period time may not be accumulated, added to the lunch hour, 
or used to shorten the day. In particular circumstances, supervisors may approve 
a different scheduling of a lunch or break period to reflect a specific or short-
term need. Such requests may not be unreasonably denied. 
 
D. Layoff and Recall 
In the event it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees in any job 
classification, the University will make every attempt to achieve such reduction 
through normal attrition. If such a reduction cannot be achieved by normal 
attrition, the University will make every effort to offer the affected employees 
available positions in the bargaining unit comparable to the positions these 
employees held prior to the reduction, in an effort to avoid layoffs and 
demotions. In addition the University will meet with the Union to discuss possible 
actions such as counseling or training which may be appropriate to the affected 
employees in order to provide the opportunity to apply for other Library or 
University positions. 
If a layoff is necessary, employees within the affected job classification shall be 
laid off from the following categories, subject to ability to perform available work, 
in the designated sequence: 

First - Probationary employees in the affected classification. 

Second - Regular part-time and full-time employees in the affected 
classification according to the bargaining unit seniority as defined in 
Article VIII, Section A. 

In any layoff situation the affected employee who is offered another position 
may be offered the position on a trial basis. The trial period will be three months 
with an option to extend to six months depending on supervisory evaluation. 
When a position is affected by layoff, the senior employee in the affected 
classification has seniority rights within classification to a position of comparable 
duty time. 
If a regular part-time or full-time employee is in an affected classification, and 
the position is the only one in the classification, the employee may be considered 
to have seniority rights within the same grade level subject to the following: 

1. the employee has the ability to do the work in another 
classification. 

2. the employee successfully completes a trial period which is three 
months, extendable to six months, based on the supervisor's 
evaluation. 

An employee in this situation may have only one trial period. If it is unsuccessful, 
the employee is then laid off. The original incumbent may then be recalled by 
Library Administration. 
Employees who are laid off shall be recalled in inverse order of layoff, subject to 
ability to perform available work. Employees to be recalled shall be notified in 
writing at their last known address as on file at the Office of Human Resources. 
A copy of such notice shall be forwarded to the Union. 
Employees to be recalled shall accept the rehiring within three (3) days after 
receipt of notice and shall report for work within fourteen (14) days after notice 
of rehire, and no new employee shall be hired into a position in the bargaining 
unit until the list of qualified former employees on layoff has been exhausted. 
Time limits for recall may be extended by the mutual agreement of both parties. 
An employee's right to recall shall cease one year after date of layoff. 
An employee shall not be laid off without advance notice of termination, or pay 
in lieu of notice, in accordance with the following schedule: 
Years of Employment With University 
Length of Notice 
 
 
1st year/31 days into probationary period*   2 weeks 
4 weeks 
2nd and 3rd years 
4th and 5th years 
6 weeks 
8 weeks 
6th and 7th years 
10 weeks 
8th thru 10th years 
11th thru 15th years  
12 weeks 
16 weeks 
16th thru 20th years 
24 weeks 
21st thru 25th years 
26th year + 
Individual consideration 
* Assumes at least 31 days of service. If less, half pay period. 
The University will notify the Union in advance of any planned layoff or recall and 
will meet with the Union to discuss the layoff and recall. 
 
E. Contracting and Subcontracting 
The Union and the University agree that layoffs are inherently destructive to the 
stability of the employment relationship. Therefore, the parties agree that should 
it become necessary to contract out or subcontract any work or services now 
performed by employees in the bargaining unit, and by so doing there is a loss of 
position, a reduction in schedule, or demotion, the University will notify the 
Union as soon as possible after the decision but no less than thirty (30) days 
before the contract becomes effective. The management will consider, as part of 

its decision-making process, whether or not it is appropriate and possible to 
discuss these changes with the Union prior to a final decision. 
The parties shall then meet in an attempt to avoid the proposed layoff or any 
part of it by alternative means such as, but not limited to, transfers, schedule 
changes, alternate vacation schedules, etc., it being fully understood that final 
determination regarding layoffs remains with the University. 
 
F. Automation 
The application and use of automation technology are integral to the services 
and work of the Library. Decisions as to how and where automation technology 
is applied and used in the Library affect, and in turn are affected by, the flow 
and organization of work, as well as budget, service, and collection needs and 
requirements. The planning and decision-making process, while varying from 
situation to situation, resides primarily with the Library Administration. 
Management recognizes that the work and working conditions of all Library staff 
are affected by its decisions regarding the application and use of automation 
technology and, therefore, seeks to involve staff as much as possible when 
planning for automation-related changes. Throughout the term of the contract, 
the Library Administration and the bargaining unit staff will seek to identify 
situations and opportunities which allow the bargaining unit staff to contribute 
views and ideas which may assist in planning and problem solving as it relates to 
the application and use of automation technology in the Library. 
Should the Library Administration decide to automate any work or services 
currently performed by employees in the bargaining unit, or to technologically 
migrate or upgrade any automated systems or equipment used by employees in 
the bargaining unit, the Library Administration will make every effort to 
communicate with the Union as early as possible in the decision-making process, 
so that the Union may contribute its views and ideas toward the final decision. 
Such communication between the Library Administration and the Union will allow 
both parties to discuss, as early as possible, the consequences for the affected 
bargaining unit employee(s) and position(s). 
If the Library Administration judges that it is not appropriate or possible to 
communicate with the Union about an automation technology change prior to 
making its final decision, the Library Administration will notify the Union of the 
proposed automation technology change no later than 30 working days before it 
is implemented. 
The Library Administration and the Union will then meet to discuss the 
consequences for the affected bargaining unit employee(s) and position(s). If the 
automation (or automation-related change) will eliminate any positions from the 
bargaining unit, every effort will be made to offer the affected employee(s) 
positions in the bargaining unit comparable to the one(s) held at the time their 
work and services are automated, with the intention to avoid layoffs or 
demotions. 
 

G. Discharge and Discipline 
No non-probationary employee may be suspended, disciplined or discharged 
except for just cause. Supervisors will follow as a guide University Policy 5.24, 
Disciplinary Procedure, for all situations involving misconduct or the violation of 
policies, rules, etc. Where there is a work performance situation that is based 
more on the need to acquire knowledge or skills or to improve judgement or 
decision-making, the following policy will apply. 
Termination of employment for poor work performance is a serious matter that 
requires careful evaluation and the approval of the Human Resources Office. 
Unsatisfactory work performance can encompass a variety of behaviors which 
include, but are not limited to, failure to complete work assignments or correct 
errors in a reasonable amount of time, inability or unwillingness to learn new 
tasks or skills, or to work collaboratively. The supervisor should take corrective 
action as soon as such patterns are identified. When there is poor performance, 
the supervisor should consult with the Human Resources manager regarding 
coaching for improved performance. 
When a significant performance problem is identified, the supervisor and 
employee will work on a tentative corrective plan. They will establish a formal 
period of evaluation, no shorter than three months, during which time the 
employee will have an opportunity to correct his/her performance. The 
supervisor should summarize in writing for the employee a description of the 
unsatisfactory work performance, standards and expectations that must be 
attained, an explanation of the period of evaluation, and a statement that unless 
the level of improvement is made and sustained, termination of employment will 
occur. 
The supervisor will recommend meeting with a Union representative to get 
further feedback before the plan is finalized. In a case where the employee 
declines Union representation, the employee should be informed that the Union 
will receive a copy of the agreed-upon plan. During the implementation of the 
plan, the employee's progress will be reviewed at least three times. The 
employee may request Union representation at any meetings to discuss 
progress. 
If at any stage of the process the supervisor believes the situation has not 
progressed satisfactorily, the supervisor should immediately involve Human 
Resources and the Union in further discussion. 
If the recommendation is that the employee continue employment, the 
supervisor will give the employee written notice of this together with a clear 
statement of expectations for the future. Within eighteen months following the 
formal review period, the supervisor is not required to provide the employee with 
another period of evaluation if the performance does not continue to meet 
established standards unless there is a clear set of new circumstances (e.g. 
change in work assignment). Documentation of the performance problems will 
be removed from the employee's official personnel file eighteen months after the 
end of the formal review period. 

If the conclusion is that the employee cannot or will not improve, the supervisor 
should confer with the Human Resources manager about termination of the 
individual's employment. When evaluation of the employee's performance 
indicates there is a possible alternative to termination, e.g., an available position 
which is a good match with the employee's skills, the University will explore that 
alternative. 
Decisions to place an employee under formal review or to terminate an employee 
are grievable according to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this 
Agreement (Article VII). 
 
H. Probationary Period 
The first three (3) months of employment shall be considered a probationary 
period; however, for pay grades D through F, after at least two (2) months 
evaluation, the probationary period may be extended an additional three months 
at the sole discretion of the supervisor. The employee should receive the reason 
for the extension in writing, and notification of extension should be given to both 
the employee and the Union after the second month, and before the twelfth 
week of the initial probationary period. 
If an employee is determined unsatisfactory during this probationary period, that 
employee may be terminated. Disciplinary action including termination during 
this probationary period shall not be subject to the grievance procedure. 
If the decision is not to continue employment because of poor performance, the 
individual's employment is terminated with notice of one (1) week or one (1) 
week's pay in lieu of notice. If the individual is terminated for misconduct, the 
one (1) week notice is at the discretion of the supervisor who will consult with 
the Human Resources Representative. 
 
I. Personnel Records 
An employee shall be allowed to see any item in her or his University personnel 
file. An employee shall be entitled to receive a copy of any item in such file upon 
request. 
Only a Human Resources representative and supervisors directly above an 
employee shall have access to the employee's University personnel file. 
Evaluative material, including performance appraisals, shall not be placed in an 
employee's University personnel file or any other file unless the employee has 
been given the opportunity to read it, and has been given a copy upon her or his 
request. The signature of the employee on the personnel file copy will indicate 
that the employee has read the material but will not necessarily indicate 
agreement with its content. An employee may comment in writing about any 
such material in the file and the comments shall appear on the file copy or 
separately for attachment to the file copy. If an employee disagrees with the 
performance appraisal, that employee may request a review using Article VII 
Section B Informal Discussions. Performance appraisals cannot be used for 
disciplinary action. Performance appraisals shall be removed from the employee's 

file after two years or two performance appraisals have been completed, 
whichever is longer. 
Disciplinary documents will be placed in the employee's University personnel file 
or any other file only after the employee has been given a copy upon her or his 
request. The signature of the employee on the file copy will indicate that the 
employee has read the material but it will not necessarily indicate agreement 
with its content. Any employee may comment about any such material in writing 
and that employee's comments shall appear on the file copy or separately for 
attachment to the specific item. Any employee not agreeing with the content of 
any disciplinary document may initiate a grievance concerning this disagreement 
with the content thereof. Disciplinary documents shall be removed from the 
employee's file after eighteen (18) months. The Union shall receive copies of any 
disciplinary documents and comments thereon. 
Except under binding legal process, no information about any employee shall be 
furnished to government, public or private party without the knowledge and 
consent of that employee. However, the University will, as a service to 
employees when possible, verify employment pursuant to standard requests 
from banks and other credit institutions. 
 
J. Rules and Regulations 
The University may promulgate reasonable rules and regulations, provided such 
rules are not inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Agreement, and 
provided further that the University shall meet and discuss any proposed rules 
and regulations with the Union prior to their adoption. Should the Union consider 
any such proposed rule or regulation unreasonable or in conflict with this 
Agreement, it may be subject to the grievance procedure.  
 
 
 
 

ARTICLE X 

SAFETY AND HEALTH 

Safety 

Safety and Health Committee 

Temperature 

 

 

A. Safety 

It is the policy of Princeton University to provide a safe work place. To that end, 
the University Department of Occupational Health and Safety is responsible for 
assisting University departments in achieving compliance with all applicable 
health and safety standards promulgated by the federal Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration. All questions regarding work place safety issues should be 
referred to the Department of Occupational Health and Safety through the 
Library Department of Administrative Services or the Library Human Resources 
Office. 

B. Safety and Health Committee 

There shall exist a committee on Safety and Health consisting of up to four (4) 
members of the Union and up to four (4) members from the University which 
shall meet as necessary either as a separate committee or in conjunction with 
the Labor Management committee. 

C. Temperature 

Employees shall not be required to work when temperature levels are unusually 
high or low in the work area. Should such a situation arise, the Union President 
or designee shall immediately contact the University Librarian or designee in an 
attempt to reach an agreement as to the working condition and how the matter 
should be handled. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XI 

 

LIBRARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING 

Education and training for bargaining unit staff in the Library has as its purpose 
and orientation two interdependent and complementary ends: 1) to provide, 
maintain, and improve the occupational knowledge and skills of the bargaining 
unit staff in fulfillment of the Library's mission; and 2) to advance the bargaining 
unit staff's occupational and career development. 

Bargaining unit staff are eligible and strongly encouraged to attend all training 
programs sponsored by the Library which enhance, either directly or indirectly, 
staff knowledge and understanding of their jobs and the skills which contribute 
to performance. Bargaining unit staff are also eligible to attend programs 
targeted specifically to enhance the skills of staff in areas other than that in 
which they themselves work provided the training needs relevant to the primary 
targeted staff permit this. Scheduling attendance at all programs requires the 
approval of the supervisor and will also be subject to the needs of the work unit. 
Supervisors, however, are strongly encouraged to further staff attendance at all 
Library training programs, since it is fully recognized that a well-informed staff is 
an indispensable asset to the Library and the University. 

The Library Education and Training Committee serves as an advisory group 
working with Library Administration and the bargaining unit staff to define 
educational and training needs and obligations and may also be involved in 
program planning and development. 

The Library Education and Training Committee consists of 4 bargaining unit staff 
and 4 professional and/or supervisory staff, who are appointed by P.U.L.A. and 
Library Administration respectively. Members serve a two-year term, with the 
option of serving a second consecutive term. To maintain continuity, two 
members will leave the Committee and two new members will replace them at 
the beginning of each academic year. Past members may substitute for a current 
member who has to leave the Committee for unplanned reasons, but such 
replacements are only to serve out the term of the departing member. Past 
members who have served two consecutive terms may serve an additional term 
or terms, but any repeat terms may not be consecutive. The Committee has the 
option of inviting additional Library and/or University staff to help the 
Committee's members study a particular issue or problem and/or to work on a 
particular project when such assistance is required. 

The working relationship between the Committee and the Staff Development 
Librarian is one of collaboration and consultation: 1) to develop, organize, 
promote, maintain and evaluate educational and training programs for 
bargaining unit employees; and 2) to define and study issues pertinent to the 
education and training of these employees in the Library. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XII 

LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY 

Sporadic Absences 

Excused Absence for Compelling Reasons 

Death in the Family 
Time Off for Marriage 

Jury Duty 

Educational Leave 

Reserve and National Guard Active Duty Training 

 

 

A. Sporadic Absences 

Employees are allowed up to eight (8) paid sick days per year for each fiscal 
year. Employees hired July 1st through December 31st will be allowed up to 
eight (8) paid sick days for the fiscal year of hire; employees hired January 1st 
through March 31st will be allowed up to four (4) paid sick days for the fiscal 
year of hire. Probationary employees, including those hired as of April 1st for 
that fiscal year, will be allowed up to two (2) paid sick days during the 
probationary period. Unused sick days may not be compensated for nor be 
carried over to be added to next year's allotment. 

Part-time employees are eligible on a pro rata basis. 

Paid sick days may also be used to care for the health needs of immediate family 
members or individuals defined as members of the employee's household. 

When sporadic illness time is depleted, leave without pay may be used in case of 
illness. With supervisory approval, this additional time may be charged to 
vacation time or optional holidays. Approval will not be unreasonably withheld. 
Any employee who is ill for at least eight (8) consecutive calendar days shall 
receive benefits according to the University's Temporary Disability Plan. 

B.  Excused Absence for Compelling Reasons 

Employees may need time off for reasons other than those provided for in leaves 
of absence with pay. Therefore, in order to provide time off with pay for 
compelling and essential reasons not covered by other leaves of absence, 
supervisors may approve up to fourteen and one-half (14-1/2) hours or two days 
per year for full time employees to be used as excused absence; part time 
employees are eligible on a pro rata basis. Compelling and essential reasons may 

include an illness in the family, household emergency, car failure, lateness due to 
emergency weather conditions, a doctor's appointment for employee's child or an 
employee's appointment with a doctor or lawyer which cannot be scheduled 
outside normal working hours. 

Excused absence time cannot be used for vacation days or optional holidays. 
Unused hours for excused absence may not be compensated for nor carried over 
to be added to next year's allotment. If more than the allotted number of hours 
of excused hours is needed by an employee, the absence will be charged to 
leave without pay or may with supervisory approval be charged as vacation. 
Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. 

C.  Death in the Family 

In the event of a death in the immediate family of an employee, authorized paid 
absence may be granted to a maximum of three (3) days. With supervisory 
approval, additional time may be taken and charged to leave without pay or 
may, with supervisory approval, be charged to vacation or optional holiday. An 
employee's immediate family is defined as including the spouse or domestic 
partner and their children or grandchildren; the parents, foster parents, 
guardians, grandparents, brothers and sisters on both sides; and a resident 
member of the household. 

With supervisory approval, time off may be granted to attend the funeral of a 
close relative who is not a member of the employee's immediate family. Such 
absences will be charged to leave without pay, or may, with supervisory approval 
be charged to vacation or optional holiday. 

D.  Time Off for Marriage 

The last working day prior to the day of marriage, the day of marriage, or the 
first day after the marriage of a regular employee may be taken off with pay. 

E.  Jury Duty 

Regular pay will continue for time spent performing jury duty or as a subpoenaed 
witness. Appearances in court for traffic or other violations, or as a party in a law 
suit may be charged to leave without pay, to vacation days, optional holidays, or 
personal leave with supervisory approval. 

F.  Educational Leave 

Where there is a direct and reasonable relationship to the present job 
assignment, paid time off for the purpose of taking courses may be granted by 
the University Librarian or designee, upon the recommendation of the immediate 

supervisor. The work requirements of the work unit and the relationship of the 
course to the present job assignment will be major considerations as to whether 
or not paid time off shall be granted. 

G.  Reserve and National Guard Active Duty Training 

Periods of annual military reserve training, to a maximum of fifteen (15) calendar 
days, will be allowed as leave with pay. The University will assure the difference 
between the employee's military base salary and that of the University. If 
vacation time is used, the employee retains the entire military salary. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XIII 

LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY 

Personal Leave Without Pay 

Union Leave 

Child-Rearing Leave 

Family Leave 
Military Service 

 

 

A. Personal Leave Without Pay 

Personal leaves of absence without pay may be granted for periods of up to 
thirty (30) calendar days for employees who have been employed more than one 
year. Requests for such leaves will be submitted in writing to the immediate 
supervisor for approval. Such requests must be submitted at least two (2) weeks 
in advance if the leave is to be of more than five (5) working days duration. An 
employee on an approved leave of absence without pay for thirty (30) calendar 
days or less shall be reinstated in his/her job. Requests for extensions beyond 
the thirty (30) days may be granted in exceptional circumstances by the Vice 
President for Human Resources. An employee on an approved leave of absence 
without pay for more than thirty (30) days duration shall be reinstated in the 
previous job classification or another position in the same salary grade for which 

the employee is qualified, subject to availability. During an approved leave of 
absence without pay, the University shall continue enrollment in the University 
group health insurance plan and group life insurance. 

B. Union Leave 

The University, upon reasonable notice, shall permit a maximum of ten (10) 
workdays without pay per year (July 1 to June 30) to be utilized by the Union 
officers, stewards and/or delegates for conventions, seminars or other similar 
Union-sponsored activity. Such leaves will be approved provided there is no 
undue interference with work requirements of the work unit. 

C. Child-Rearing Leave 

A leave of absence without pay for child-rearing purposes may be granted for up 
to one year for either parent or both. 

D. Family Leave 

University Policy "Family Leave" will apply to employees covered by this collective 
bargaining agreement. 

E. Military Service 

Time for extended military service will be granted without salary for a period of 
up to four (4) years to any regular employee who is drafted or who enlists in the 
Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard or Marines, or an employee who as a 
member of the National Guard or organized Reserve is called into active duty. At 
the time of departure from the University the employee will be paid for all 
accumulated vacation time. 

Within ninety (90) days of discharge from active duty or within one year if 
hospitalized after discharge, reemployment may be pursued with the Office of 
Human Resources and every attempt will be made to offer a position comparable 
in status and pay to the former University job, providing the employee retains 
the proper credentials. Service with the University will be considered continuous 
from the date of the original employment. The returning veteran may not be 
discharged without cause for a one year period from rehire. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XIV 

BENEFITS 

Vacation 
Holidays 

University Benefits and Programs 

 

 

A. Vacation 

During the first year of employment, vacation time is earned from the 
employee's date of employment through the following June 30th. Thereafter it is 
earned from July 1st through the following June 30th. Vacation earned during 
this period may be taken when earned with the supervisor's prior approval 
except during the probationary period. During the first three (3) months of the 
probationary period, an employee may not use vacation. If the probationary 
period has been extended for grades D-F, an employee may use up to five (5) 
vacation days during the last three (3) months of the probationary period. If an 
employee has additional accrued vacation, up to five (5) additional days may be 
taken with approval of the supervisor. Such approval shall not be unreasonably 
withheld. Reasonable notice shall be given for vacation requests by employees. 

Vacation allowances are based on fiscal year of service as follows: 

1. One year of service: 22 working days per year. 

2. Less than one year of service, vacation allowance computed as follows: 

.424 X (number of weeks worked through June 30th) = vacation 
days earned. 

Part-time employees' vacation days shall be computed as follows: 
1. Part-time employees working the same number of hours each day, five (5) 
days each week, shall receive the full vacation allowance of twenty-two (22) 
vacation days, paid at the employee's regular part-time salary rate. For example, 
in one fiscal year of service an employee working four (4) hours each day, five 
(5) days each week, shall have accumulated twenty-two (22) vacation days at 
four (4) hours per day, or eighty-eight (88) hours of vacation time. 

Such part-time employees with less than one full year of service shall receive 
vacation time computed according to the following formula: 

.424 X (number of weeks worked through June 30) = vacation days 
earned. 

2. Part-time employees working less than a five (5) day work week, and/or a 
different number of hours each work day, shall receive vacation time paid at the 
employee's regular part-time salary rate, computed on an hours basis according 
to the following formula: 

(schedule of hours per week) X 3.074* X 
              36.25 
(number of weeks worked) = vacation hours earned 
*3.074 = number of vacation days earned in one full-time week 
(.424) X number of hours in one full-time work day (7.25). 

After completion of the probationary period, earned vacation days are retroactive 
to the date of hire. Probationary employees are not compensated for 
accumulated vacation upon termination. 
Employees shall receive their regular rate of pay during a vacation. Choice of 
vacation days may be worked out by each work unit and should reflect the 
consensus of the work group with the supervisor's approval. Choice may be 
based on work unit seniority, rotation, first come, first served, or an employee 
exchange of dates. This list is not all inclusive, but simply suggests some 
methods which the groups may choose to adopt. If no consensus is reached, a 
choice of vacation days will be based on the work unit seniority. For seniority to 
be honored in scheduling vacation days, vacation notice must be made at least 
30 calendar days in advance. Supervisors will respond to vacation requests 
within a reasonable period of time. 
The vacation allowance earned in one fiscal year may not be carried over beyond 
June 30th of the succeeding year. 
At termination an employee will receive full pay at the employee's current rate 
for all unused vacation days. 
When a University holiday falls within an approved vacation period, it is not to be 
counted as a vacation day. If an employee becomes ill during a vacation period, 
the employee may request that the portion of the vacation during which the 
employee was ill be converted from vacation time to sick leave. In order to be 
eligible for such conversion of vacation to paid sick leave, the employee must 
submit acceptable evidence of hospitalization or of a doctor's attendance. When 
a death occurs in the immediate family while an employee is on vacation, death 
in the family leave time may be taken instead of vacation time. Employees do 
not earn vacation time while on leave of absence without pay. 
Return to top 

B. Holidays 
There are eleven (11) paid holidays annually. Nine (9) holidays are designated by 
the Office of Human Resources in a yearly holiday schedule and the two 
remaining days are optional and may be taken with the prior approval of the 
supervisor. The University shall have the right to designate one of the holidays 
as an optional holiday for a particular year. All regular full-time employees of the 
bargaining unit will receive their usual pay for designated holidays. All regular 
employees who have a work schedule of five (5) days per week which does not 
include the designated holiday will receive an additional optional holiday in lieu of 
that day. Any regular part-time employees who work less than five (5) days per 
week will have the number of holidays for which they are eligible prorated to 
their percent duty time. Designated holidays which occur during a sporadic 
absence or a vacation period are to be considered holidays rather than sporadic 
absences or vacation. Employees are not eligible for holiday pay during a period 
of temporary disability, worker's compensation or a leave without pay. 
Optional Holidays - All regular employees of the bargaining unit, full-time and 
part-time, will receive their usual pay for an optional holiday. Optional holidays 
must be taken in the fiscal year in which they are given. Unused optional 
holidays will not be paid for at termination. Employees hired July 1st through 
December 31st will be granted two optional holidays for the fiscal year of hire; 
employees hired January 1st through June 30th will be granted one optional 
holiday for the fiscal year of hire. Probationary employees will be allowed one (1) 
optional holiday during the probationary period. 
 
C. University Benefits and Programs 
For the duration of this Agreement the University shall continue to provide the 
benefits or equivalent or better benefits as contained in the following University 
programs, plans or policies. 

1.  Faculty/Staff Education Assistance/Tuition Grant Program 
2.  Faculty and Staff Children's Base Loan Program 
3.  Faculty and Staff Children's Supplemental Loan Program 
4.  Pension Plan 
5.  Housing Program 
6.  Continuing Education Program 
7.  Health Insurance Plan 
8.  Temporary Disability Leave (*Please note change in Notification and 

Documentation Requirements below) 

9.  Long-Term Disability 
10. Group Life Insurance Program/Accidental Death & Dismemberment 
11. Business Travel Accident Insurance 
12. Supplemental Retirement Annuities 
13. Workers' Compensation 

The University shall notify and meet with the Union to discuss major benefit 
changes at least two months prior to implementation. If the Union disagrees with 
any changes it may initiate a grievance at Step 3 of the grievance and arbitration 
procedure. 
Return to top 

*Temporary Disability Leave Notification and Documentation 
Requirements 
Employees and their health care providers, department supervisors, the Office of 
Occupational Medicine and the Office of Human Resources are jointly responsible 
for ensuring that the required paperwork is processed in a timely manner so that 
there is continuation of appropriate salary. 
Employees must: 

 

  Notify their supervisors of their absence from work as soon 

as possible to ensure appropriate charging of time and to 
allow the supervisor to plan for the absence; 

  Work with the health care providers to make sure that the 

medical verification of the temporary disability is sent to the 
Office of Occupational Medicine promptly and as required. 
Employees who have not submitted appropriate 
documentation to support their application for temporary 
disability leave will have their time out of the workplace 
charged, with supervisory approval, to sporadic time, 
vacation time, or leave of absence without pay, until 
documentation from the health care provider has been 
received, reviewed, and approved. If an employee or his/her 
health care provider fails to provide documentation by the 
end of the third week of absence, the University shall notify 
the employee by certified mail that failure to respond within 
five (5) working days of the receipt of the letter may result 
in termination. In the event that termination does occur, the 
employee may appeal the case and explain special 
circumstances which affected his/her case; 

  Report their return to work status to their supervisor on a 

weekly basis. If the employee is physically or mentally 
incapacitated due to illness or accident, the report may be 
made by a designee; 

  Ensure that during the course of the disability, required 

reports and updates are also sent to the Office of 
Occupational Medicine promptly. Failure to receive the 
required medical documents can result in the denial of 
disability pay to the employee. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XV 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Savings Clause 

Correction of Paycheck Errors 
Library Borrowing Privileges 

Extreme Weather 

Copies of This Agreement 
Labor Management Meetings 

 

 

A. Savings Clause 

In the event any Federal or State law or regulation having the effect of law, or 
the final decision of any court or board of competent jurisdiction, directly or 
indirectly affects any one or more practices, or provisions of this Agreement, the 
practices or provisions so affected shall be made to comply with the 
requirements of such law, regulation, or decision for the localities within the 
jurisdiction, and otherwise the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. 
The parties agree to discuss any adjustments which need to be made for 
compliance and to discuss, if necessary, any substitute article, section, or portion 
thereof. 

B. Correction of Paycheck Errors 

The University shall correct and adjust any errors in an employee's paycheck 
within the immediately succeeding pay period after appropriate notice is received 
in the Payroll Section. The "immediately succeeding pay period" will be 
determined giving due consideration to regular payroll processing cutoff dates. A 
list of these dates will be made available to the Union. 

C. Library Borrowing Privileges 

Borrowing privileges include loans, renewals, recalls, holds and traces. All 
categories of borrowers are subject to fines. Library electronic resources are fully 
accessible at library public access computer stations, within the confines of 
campus computer use guidelines and licensing agreements. 

Library employees shall not have a reduction in borrowing privileges currently 
enjoyed unless such reduction is applied equally to other categories of borrowers 
who currently enjoy the same borrowing privileges as library employees. 

D. Extreme Weather 

When regularly scheduled work hours are reduced as a result of extreme 
weather conditions, either through a release from work or a delayed opening, 
employees who are at work shall be compensated for a normal work day. Only 
those employees who are required to work (provide necessary services) when 
other employees are released from work shall be provided with equivalent time 
off at a later date. The University will promptly inform all work units in the library 
whenever regularly scheduled work hours are reduced. 

When the University schedules a delayed opening, special announcements will be 
made over the local radio stations as early as possible. Only those employees 
who are required to work (provide necessary services) when other employees 
may arrive late to work shall be provided with equivalent time off at a later date. 
Employees who arrive prior to the adjusted starting time shall not be required to 
begin work until the adjusted starting time. But those employees who choose to 
remain in the work place will be required to work. 

E. Copies of This Agreement 

The University shall print and supply the Union with sufficient copies of this 
Agreement, at the earliest possible date (preferably within thirty (30) calendar 
days after the signing of the Agreement), to be distributed to all present 
employees and to future employees employed during the term of this 
Agreement. The Union shall distribute copies of this Agreement to all present 
employees. The University shall supply copies of this Agreement to new 
employees at the time they are hired. 

F. Labor Management Meetings 

The University and the local Union officers or designees shall meet on a monthly 
basis, unless there is mutual agreement to cancel or reschedule the meeting, for 
the purpose of reviewing the administration of the Agreement and to discuss 
other matters of mutual interest. This may include issues of perceived 
harassment of an employee which in the view of the union or management is 
determined to be a verifiable, documented action which creates an atmosphere 

which, by reasonable standards, intimidates, threatens, or is hostile to an 
individual or group of individuals. These meetings are not intended to by-pass 
the grievance procedure nor to be considered collective bargaining meetings, but 
rather are intended as a means of fostering good employment relations through 
communication between the parties. 

Either party may submit a written agenda of topics to be discussed at least one 
week prior to such meetings. If such meetings are held during working hours, 
the Union representatives shall be granted time off to attend without loss of pay. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XVI 

MANAGEMENT RIGHTS 

 

Unless specifically limited by express language of this Agreement, the University 
retains all of the power, rights, functions and responsibilities and authority to 
carry out its educational mission, to undertake all related supporting functions 
and direct its employees, which belonged to the University prior to the Union's 
certification. Unless specifically limited by express language of this Agreement, 
the rights reserved to and retained by the University but by no means wholly 
inclusive, are the right to hire; to assign duties to the work force, to assign or 
transfer temporary or permanent employees to other classifications as operations 
may require; to determine the number of and type of employees required 
including part-time, temporary and student employees; to introduce new or 
improved methods, machinery or facilities; and in all respects to carry out the 
ordinary and customary functions of management. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XVII 

 

NO STRIKE/NO LOCKOUT 

The University agrees that there shall be no lockouts during the term of this 
Agreement. No employee shall suffer any loss of pay or seniority as a result of 
any breach of the above provision. 

Neither the Union nor any employee shall engage in any strike, sympathy strike, 
work stoppage, concerted slowdown, refusal to cross any picket line established 
at Princeton University, or interrupt work in any other way. 

Any employee engaging in activity prohibited by this Section may be subject to 
termination or other disciplinary action. Employees may grieve discharge or 
disciplinary actions taken pursuant to this section only as to whether the affected 
employee(s) did not in fact engage in any activity in violation of the Section. 
Further, for any employee who in fact did participate in any activity in violation of 
this section, and if such violation is the employee's first such offense, occurring 
after the date of this Agreement, then the employee or the Union may use the 
grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement with respect to any 
discipline which may have been imposed upon the employee by the University 
for her/his participation. Discipline imposed upon any employee for her/his 
second or subsequent such offense during the term of the employee's 
employment and after the date of this Agreement shall not be subject to 
arbitration. However, the limitation on discipline during the first or second day of 
violation in the following paragraph shall not apply for any employee for the 
second or subsequent offense during her/his employment and after the date of 
this Agreement. 

The University shall notify the Union of any violation of this Section. Notification 
to the Union may be given to Union officials or stewards or to AFSCME Council 
No. 73. The Union officials and stewards shall make every effort to prevent 
employees from carrying out activity which is in violation of this Section. 
Discharge of employees for engaging in activity in violation of this Section 
pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall not take place until after the first full 
workday of such activity for those employees. 

The maximum discipline under the preceding paragraph on the first or second 
work days referenced above shall be a suspension not to exceed ten (10) days. 
Such suspended employee shall be reinstated in the same position with no loss 
of seniority. No damage action shall lie against AFSCME Council or the 
International Union unless officials of those organizations participate in or 
condone violations of this Section. 

In the event of an alleged breach of this provision the University may proceed 
with expedited arbitration by filing with the American Arbitration Association a 

notice of alleged breach of this provision with a copy to the Union. The American 
Arbitration Association shall appoint an impartial arbitrator within twenty-four 
(24) hours of receipt of such notification and a hearing shall be held within 
twenty-four (24) hours of the appointment of the arbitrator. Such arbitrator shall 
have authority to issue a cease and desist order directing that any activity in 
violation of this Section be ended with an opinion to substantiate such award to 
follow subsequent to the award issuance. Nothing in this paragraph shall mean 
the University waives any other remedies which might be available to it. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XVIII 

NEGOTIATIONS 

The University and the Union acknowledge this to be their complete Agreement 
and inclusive of all negotiable issues whether or not discussed in bargaining 
preceding this Agreement and hereby waive any right to further negotiations on 
any issues presented or not presented in the negotiations or covered or not 
covered by the Agreement. This provision shall not apply when the parties 
mutually agree to the contrary or when a specific provision of this Agreement 
provides to the contrary. 

 
 
 
 

ARTICLE XIX 

DURATION OF AGREEMENT 

This Agreement shall be effective July 1, 1998, and shall continue in full force 
and effect up to and including June 30, 2002, and shall continue from year to 

 

 

year thereafter, unless written notice shall be given by either party to the other 
of its desire to renegotiate the Agreement at least 60 days prior to the end of the 
current term or prior to the end of any subsequent year. 

Letter of Understanding 

The University and the AFSCME Princeton University Library Assistants agree to 
the following:  

1.  During the first year of the contract negotiated for the period July 1, 1998 

through June 30, 2002, the Labor-Management Committee will meet to 
discuss and recommend to the Library administration a plan for the 
implementation of the pay for performance program which will be the 
basis for the July 1, 2000 and July 1, 2001 salary increases. 

2.  The Labor-Management Committee will work with the Compensation 

department to survey Library support positions midway through the '99-
'00 fiscal year. If the results of that survey demonstrate that there are 
positions which are obviously below the defined labor market, either union 
or management may request a wage reopener within 60 days of June 30, 
2000. 

3.  The Labor Management Committee will review any policy changes or new 

issues which have an effect on the workplace. If either party believes a 
particular change requires it, the party may request a contract reopener 
within 60 days of June 30, 2000 on that particular policy or issue. 

 

