Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

50

Language English

Country United States

State

CA

Union CUE (Coalition of University Employees)

Local

Office clerks, general 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Regents of the University of California
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 2000

EndYear 2001

Source

http://www.cueunion.org/bargaining/contract/access.php3

Original_format PDF (multipart)

Notes

Contact

Claudia Horning, President, CUE, clericals@cueunion.org

Full text contract begins on following page.

TO CUE MEMBERS: 
 
This document has been prepared to allow each member to have a chance to see the tentative contract language 
in order to make an informed decision on whether or not to vote to ratify the CUE bargaining team's tentative 
agreement with UC.  There may be some typographical errors in this, but they will be fixed before the contract is 
printed, if it is ratified.  An example is that in the WAGES article, there is no section "B," though there is an "A" and 
a "C".  There is no text missing, but the existing outline format is clearly flawed and will need to be fixed if the 
language is ratified. 
 
This is a long document, and the CUE bargaining team has prepared the enclosed summary to aid you in your 
considerations. 
 
If you have questions about the meaning of any of this language, please contact any of the members of CUE's 
bargaining team, who are listed elsewhere in this packet 
 

 

ACCESS/UNION RIGHTS 

 
A.   GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

1.  

The parties acknowledge that it is in the union's interest that it be granted access to University facilities 
for the purposes of ascertaining whether the terms of this Agreement are being met; engaging in the 
investigation, preparation, and adjustment of grievances; conducting union meetings; explaining to 
bargaining unit members their rights and responsibilities under the Agreement; and informing CUE 
employees of union activities. In the interest of facilitating these purposes, and in accordance with local 
campus/Laboratory/hospital procedures, the parties agree to this Article.  

 

2.  

The University has the right to enforce reasonable access rules and regulations as promulgated at 
each campus/Laboratory/hospital.  

 
B.   ACCESS BY THE UNION/UNION REPRESENTATIVES - GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

1.   Designated union representatives who are not University employees, or who are not employed at the 
facility visited, may visit the facility at reasonable times and upon notice to discuss with the University 
or bargaining unit members matters pertaining to this Agreement. In the case of visits for the purpose 
of conducting unscheduled meetings with bargaining unit members, the union representative shall give 
notice upon arrival in accordance with local campus/Laboratory/hospital procedures.  

2.   CUE will furnish the University with a written list of all CUE representatives, CUE designated employee 
representatives and officers who are authorized by the union to conduct union business.  This list shall 
be maintained in a timely manner by CUE and any changes, additions or deletions to the list must be 
made in writing to the University.  

3.   Such internal union business as membership recruitment, campaigning for union office, handbilling or 

other distribution of literature, and all other union activities shall take place during non-work time.  
Employee rest and meal periods are non-work time for the purposes of this Article.  

 

 

 
C.   EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES  
 

1.  

The University shall recognize CUE designated employee representatives who are members of the 
bargaining unit. The function of the CUE designated employee representative shall be to inform 
employees of their rights under this Agreement, to ascertain that the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement are being observed, and to investigate and assist in the processing of grievances.  

For the purposes of receiving paid release time as provided in this section, CUE may designate four 
University employees as "CUE designated employee representatives" at each 
campus/Laboratory/hospital.  Additionally, in the event campus/hospital/laboratory has more than 
200employees, CUE may designate one additional CUE-designated employee representative for each 

 

2.  

additional 100 bargaining unit members thereafter, up to a maximum of thirty (30) CUE-designated 
employee representatives.  CUE shall not designate more than one CUE designated employee 
representative per department unless the department has more than 200 employees in which case 
there can be up to 1 per 100 CX employees.  The department CUE reps may not be from the same 
smaller unit (4 or less CX employees) of such a large department.  

a.   The total cumulative use of paid release time for the CUE designated employee representative 

shall be limited to 10hours in any one month.  University convened meetings pursuant to Article - 
Grievance Procedure, shall not be deducted from this block of time.  

 

b.   The use of the maximum of 10 hours shall be for grievance-related activity such as:  

1)  

2)  

3)  

the initial hand-delivered filing of a grievance and the retrieval of University documents 
provided pursuant to a written request for information related to a grievance;  

one-on-one meetings with a grievant concerning a filed grievance, or an alleged violation of 
this Agreement which is at the Informal Review stage of Article - Grievance Procedure;  

meetings with the University representative to whom written grievances are presented or to 
whom documents related to filed grievance are presented/signed or with whom time limit 
agreements are achieved;  

4)  

Informal Review meetings held pursuant to 'E. of Article- Grievance Procedure.  

c.   A request for release time will be made to the CUE designated employee representative's 

supervisor prior to the activity. Such approval shall be granted solely on the basis of operational 
needs and shall not be denied unreasonably.  

d.   At its sole discretion, the University may authorize use of release time for more than 10 hours in a 
month per department.  The exercise of this discretion and/or the enforcement by the University of 
the 10-hour maximum shall under no circumstances establish a precedent for the CUE designated 
employee representative or department involved nor shall the allowance of greater than 10 hours in 
a month for a CUE designated employee representative have any effect or bearing on the ability of 
the University to enforce the 10-hour maximum on any other CUE designated employee 
representative.  

e.   Should a question of possible abuse of these release time provisions arise, the University will so 

notify CUE, and the parties will attempt to resolve the matter.  If a question remains, the University 
may take corrective action when warranted.  

 
D.   MEETING ROOMS AND BULLETIN BOARDS  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.   CUE shall be granted use of general purpose meeting rooms.  Such use shall be arranged in advance 

with the designated campus/Laboratory/hospital office and will not be unreasonably denied.  Room 
reservations shall not be canceled by the University except where unforeseen circumstances require 
the room to be used for purposes such as teaching, or patient care-related purposes or staff 
conferences.  If a reserved room is canceled, the University will attempt to provide a comparable 
alternative.  

2.   CUE shall have access to general purpose bulletin boards and shall have the use of those bulletin 

boards.  Any materials posted must be dated and initialed by the union representative responsible for 
the posting and a copy of all materials posted must be provided to the appropriate University 
representative at the location at the time of posting.  At those locations where the University is 
responsible for posting material on bulletin boards, the University will post copies of the CUE-provided 
material within one business day.  

United States mail which is received by the University bearing an employee name and accurate address will 
be placed in the employee mailboxes in the normal manner.  In departments where employee mailboxes 
exist, the union shall have reasonable use of them.  In departments where individual mailboxes are in a 
restricted work area, CUE may make arrangements with the responsible University official in the restricted 
work area to have the CUE mail placed in the employee mailboxes.  Where mailboxes do not exist for 
employees, the University will distribute CUE mail to employees by the normal method.  

E.   MAIL DELIVERY  
 
 

 
F.   EMPLOYEE LISTS  
 

1.   On a yearly basis, the University shall provide CUE with an alphabetized list by 

campus/Laboratory/hospital of all employees at each campus/Laboratory/hospital.  This list will be on 
disk and will contain the name, title, campus mailing address, appointment type, last date of hire with 
continuous employment, pay rate, and department to which the employee is assigned.  Home address 
will be provided if the employee has agreed to release of the home address.  CUE shall pay for the 
initial programming of such information upon execution of the Agreement.  CUE will provide the 
University with a check not to exceed $700 to cover the cost of production of the list.  The University 
agrees to provide CUE with an initial list no later than 90 days of receipt of the check and will provide 
monthly lists from that date forward.  The list will include the most accurate and complete information 
available to the University.  

2.   Once each month, beginning 30 days after provision of the initial list, each campus/Laboratory/hospital 
will provide to CUE a list of changes (e.g., salary adjustment, new hire, transfer, promotion, discharge, 
home address, etc.) that have occurred within the bargaining unit.  

3.   Until imposition of 'F.I. and 'F.2. above, the previous practice regarding master lists will remain in effect.  

 
G.   PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION OF AGREEMENT  
 

1.   A copy of this Agreement shall be given by the University to each employee in the Bargaining Unit.  

The University and CUE shall split the cost of printing contracts for unit members.  In addition, the 
parties shall each pay for the number of copies they need for administrative and other purposes.  

The University shall provide CUE a copy of the tentative agreement language on diskette within seven 
working days of reaching tentative agreement.  A camera-ready copy will be provided to CUE within 30 
calendar days from the parties' agreement of the final text.  Within 20 calendar days of CUE's receipt of 
the camera-ready copy, CUE shall confirm the final copy or meet with the University to review 
corrections.  The University shall then deliver the agreed upon camera-ready copy to the UC Printing 
Services.  Within 20 calendar days of receipt of the "blue line" from UC Printing Services, the University 
shall notify CUE to meet and review the "blue line."  At that time, CUE shall pay the University one-half 
of the estimated cost of the agreement for the unit members.  Upon receipt of full payment from CUE, 
each location shall distribute the agreement to members of the unit within 75 calendar days.  

 

 

 
I.  
 
 

 

2.  

 
H.   TELEPHONE  
 
 

Employee representatives may use University telephones for the purpose of conducting union business 
which is specifically authorized by Article - Grievance Procedure. Employees are responsible for paying any 
costs associated with such telephone usage in accordance with the departmental procedures in effect at the 
time. The frequency and duration of permitted phone calls shall not be such as to interfere with or disrupt the 
employee's completion of work assignments, nor impair the efficiency of University operations.  The 
University may audit employee representatives' use of the telephone system to the same extent as it may 
audit other employees use of such equipment.  

E-MAIL USE  

CUE designated employee representatives may use their University e-mail account for the purpose of 
conducting union business which is specifically authorized by Article -Grievance Procedure. Such use shall 

also conform to and be in accordance with applicable University policy regarding electronic mail/electronic 
communications.  

 
J.   New Employee Orientations  
 

1.  

The University shall notify CUE in advance of scheduled new employee orientations, if any, upon 
request of the local CUE representative.  

2.   At the University's new employee orientation, if any, packets of information supplied by CUE shall be 

made available.  

3.   CUE shall be permitted to meet with the new Clerical employees according to 

campus/hospital/laboratory timetables and practices immediately after new employee orientation 
sessions, if any, for the purpose of sharing information with new clerical employees.  

4.  

 
5.  

Information about the time and location of the CUE meeting shall be announced at the new employee 
orientation meeting, if any. Employees may attend CUE's meeting on non-work time such as lunch or 
break times.  

The University and CUE agree to meet and confer over arrangements to accomplish the goals of this 
section.  

LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS 

 
A.  GENERAL CONDITIONS  
 

1.  

Long Term Leave Of Absence Without Pay  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.   Upon at least thirty (30) calendar days advance written request from CUE and the employee, the 

University shall grant one (1) CUE-represented employee per hospital/campus/Laboratory an 
extended leave of absence without pay to engage in union business. The union/employee shall 
specify the duration of the extended leave of absence at the time the employee requests the leave. 
No such leave shall be granted unless the written request specifies the duration of the leave.  

b.   Long-term leaves of absence shall be for a period of not less than one (1) year. In no situations 

shall the University grant a long-term leave of absence for a period of more than three (3) years.  

c.   During the leave of absence, the employee shall be in a "without pay and without benefits" status. 
Furthermore, during the employee's leave of absence the University shall in no way be obligated to 
provide pay or benefits for the employee. The employee may purchase benefits in accordance with 
plan regulations.  

d.   The University, due to operational requirements, may postpone the date a long-term leave of 

absence without pay is scheduled to begin.  

2.   Short Term Leave  

a.   Subject to operational considerations, upon at least thirty (30) calendar days' written request from 

CUE and the employee, the University will grant a short-term leave of absence without pay for 
union business to one (1) employee per hospital/campus/Laboratory per calendar year. Such 
leaves may not exceed twelve (12) consecutive months.  

b.   Requests for short-term leave shall not be unreasonably denied.  

c.   During the leave of absence, the employee shall be in a "without pay and without benefits" status.  
Furthermore, during the employee's leave of absence the University shall in no way be obligated to 
provide pay or benefits for the employee.  The employee may purchase benefits in accordance with 
plan regulations.  

B.   RETURN FROM LEAVE  
 
 

The University shall not be required to return an employee on a leave of absence for union business prior to 
the return date specified at the start of the leave.  

1.   At least forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the completion of the long-term leave of absence, CUE 

shall notify the University of the employee's intent to return to the University's employ and the 
employee shall likewise so advise the University.  

2.   Upon return, the employee shall be placed in the same position from which s/he took the leave of 

absence and at the rate of pay which would place the employee at the same relative position in the 
range for the position as that range exists when the employee returns. Placement of the employee in 
her/his previous position shall be consistent with staffing reductions and/or layoffs, which may have 
occurred during the period of the leave of absence without pay.  

 
C.   ATTENDANCE AT LOCAL MEETINGS  
 
 

 

 

 

 
A. 

 
D.  

 

Upon fourteen calendar days' advance written notice to her/his supervisor, local union officers and local 
employee representatives included on the list provided to the University by CUE, as set forth in Section B.2. 
of Article -, Access, shall be granted time off without pay or, at the employee's option, such time would be 
charged to accrued compensatory time off or accrued vacation time, to attend local union meetings.  
Approval for such leave shall not be granted for a period to exceed four (4) hours and such approval shall not 
be granted to any individual employee more than once per month.  The granting of such approval to local 
employee representatives and officers shall be subject to the operational needs of the University and may be 
granted to one (1) or more but not necessarily all such employees on the same shift in the same operational 
area.  Such approval shall not be unreasonably denied.  

RELEASE TIME FOR BARGAINING 

The University will provide released time for eleven designated team members, no more than one per 
location, in a without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status to attend scheduled bargaining sessions for 
negotiations.  CUE is expected to designate in writing permanent and alternate team members who are 
members of the bargaining unit and in active employment status at least 30 calendar days prior to the first 
bargaining session.  Nothing in this section shall preclude CUE's appointment of a permanent bargaining 
team member during the course of negotiations from a location where a permanent team member had not 
been selected previously.  Substitution of alternate members for permanent members is permitted only upon 
CUE's provision, in writing, of the name and work location of the employee team member alternate seven 
calendar days in advance of the scheduled bargaining session unless the parties agree otherwise. 

 
B.   Such released time in without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status shall be provided only for scheduled 

negotiation sessions and only for days on which the team member would have been scheduled to work.  
Such hours shall not exceed the bargaining team member's actual scheduled work hours for any one day of a 
scheduled bargaining session, not to exceed 40 hours per week.  Such released time shall not count in the 
calculation of overtime or other ancillary pay/premiums. 

 
C.   Bargaining sessions are defined as scheduled face-to-face meetings and related caucuses during meeting 

days for the purpose of negotiating wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.  The travel 
time included in the released time without loss of straight-time pay status is reasonable amount of time for 
direct travel to and from the bargaining team member's place of employment. 

It is expected that employee bargaining team members shall provide their supervisors with written notice of 
all bargaining sessions as soon as practicable following the scheduling of bargaining sessions.  A bargaining 
team member may be denied released time for bargaining, either in paid or unpaid status, if written notice is 
not provided at least 14 calendar days prior to the scheduled bargaining, unless the parties agree otherwise.  
In the event a bargaining session is scheduled with less than 14 calendar days advance notice, the University 
will make every effort to insure released time for primary and/or permanent alternate to CUE's bargaining 
team. 

AGREEMENT 

This Agreement is made and entered into on (date) at Oakland, California, pursuant to the provisions of 
Articles 1 through 11 of the Higher Education Employer-Employee Relations Act (HEERA) by and between 
The Regents of the University of California, a corporation (hereinafter referred to as the "University" or 
"management" or"employer") represented by the Office of the President of the University of California 
system, and the Coalition of University Employees (hereinafter referred to as CUE or the "Union").  

 
B.   PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT  
 

 
A. 

 

 

 

1.  

It is the intent and purpose of the parties hereto that this Agreement constitutes an implementation of 
the provisions of HEERA and provides for orderly and constructive employment relations in the public 
interest, in the interests of the University, and the interests of the employees represented by CUE.  

 The parties hereby acknowledge that this Agreement represents an amicable understanding reached 
by the parties as a result of the unlimited right and opportunity of the parties to make any and all 
demands with respect to the employer-employee relationship which exists between them relative to the 
scope of bargaining.  

This Agreement recognizes one certified bargaining unit.  Each provision of this Agreement applies to 
that bargaining unit unless specified otherwise.  

 

 

2. 

3.  

 
C.   RECOGNITION  
 

1.   Pursuant to and in conformity with the certifications issued by the Public Employment Relations Board 
(PERB) of the State of California in case number SF-HR-12, the University recognizes CUE as the sole 
and exclusive representative for the purposes of collective bargaining with respect to wages, hours, 
and terms and conditions of employment for all employees, excluding employees designated as 
managerial, supervisory and/or confidential by the University as of November 21, 1997 and all student 
employees whose employment is contingent upon their status as students, in the following described 
bargaining unit: 

a.   Unit #12 - Clerical and Allied Services (SF-HR-12)  

2.  

The term "employee" as used in this Agreement shall refer to employees of the University of California 
including the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory ("Laboratory") in the above-mentioned unit except 
for those excluded pursuant to C.l. above.  

3.  

The classes and title codes included in Unit 12 are listed in Appendices A and B.  

 
D.   WAIVER OF UNIT MODIFICATION AND RECLASSIFICATION OF EXCLUDED POSITIONS  
 
 

The job titles and positions excluded from the unit by the parties' stipulations of July 22, 1997 and by PERB's 
Consent Election Order of May 20, 1997 shall be conclusively deemed to be managerial, supervisory, or 
confidential, or any indicated combination thereof, as shown on the list appended to said stipulation, and CUE 
expressly waives for the duration of this Agreement any right it may have to seek to include any such title or 
stipulation by unit modification.  CUE recognizes that the University has the exclusive right to establish new 
title codes and titles for any such excluded position or title.  The University shall advise CUE of any such new 
title.  In the event the University elects not to establish a new title for some or all excluded positions currently 
classified in included titles, the University shall, during the term of this Agreement, provide the Union with a 
list, by bargaining unit and by campus/hospital/Laboratory location, of the excluded positions which remain 
within included titles and the incumbents at that time, if any.  The failure to include an excluded position on 
any such list shall not be evidence that the position should be included in any unit.  

 
E.   RECLASSIFICATION FROM UNIT TO NON-UNIT POSITIONS  
 
 

In the event the University determines that a position should be reclassified or designated for exclusion with 
the result that the position would be removed from the unit, it shall notify the Union in writing at least 60 

calendar days before proposed implementation, with a statement of the reasons for the proposed 
reclassification or exclusion.  Upon written notice from CUE, the parties shall meet and confer at least 30 
calendar days before the intended date of implementation, unless the parties agree otherwise.  Any 
unresolved disputes which remain following these discussions may be submitted to PERB for resolution.  At 
the end of the 60 calendar day period the University may implement the proposed change pending the final 
resolution by the PERB process.  

 
F.   NEW CLASSES  
 

1.   When the University creates a new class and title within the occupational subgroups (OSG) included in 

the bargaining unit, the University shall mail a notice to the union of the bargaining unit assignment, if 
any, of such class at least 60 calendar days before the proposed date of implementation.  The notice to 
the union shall include a statement of reason(s) for the creation of the new class.  The Union shall have 
45 calendar days from the date of such notice to contest the University's assignment.  If the Union 
contests the assignment, the University and the Union shall meet and confer in an effort to reach 
agreement on the bargaining unit assignment for the class.  If the parties are unable to reach 
agreement, the dispute shall be submitted to PERB pursuant to Regulation 32781 (a)(2) for resolution.  
If the Union does not contest the bargaining unit assignment within the 30 calendar day notice period, 
the unit assignment of the new class shall be deemed agreeable to the parties and PERB shall be so 
advised.  Bargaining unit assignments made by the University which are contested by the Union shall 
remain as originally assigned by the University until such time as the parties are in mutual agreement 
as to a different assignment or, if such assignment is referred to PERB within the appeal period stated 
above, until resolution of the matter by the PERB process.  

2. 

If the inclusion of a new class within the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement is agreed to by the 
parties or found appropriate by PERB, the University shall assign a pay rate to the class.  

3.   Assignment by the University of the pay rate to a new class as indicated above shall be consistent with 
the existing compensation and classification methodologies utilized by the University at the time of the 
assignment.  

 
4.  

If the new classification is in the bargaining unit in accordance with the provisions of Section F.1-3 
above, the University shall notify CUE of the proposed range and ancillary pay practice to be 
implemented.  If CUE notifies UC within 15 days of receipt of the notice it wishes to bargain the 
change(s), the parties shall meet and confer regarding the salary range and ancillary pay practices for 
the classification.  Meet and confer shall commence no later than 30 calendar days following the 
Union's request, unless the parties agree otherwise.  

 
G.   ABOLITION OF CLASSES  
 

The University will provide CUE with 60 calendar days' notice of its intent to abolish a classification.  The 
notice to the Union shall include a statement of the reason(s) for the abolition.  Upon written request from 
CUE, the parties will meet and confer over the effects at least 30 days before the intended date of 
implementation unless the parties agree otherwise.  The University shall not abolish the class unless the 
parties have reached agreement through the meet and confer process over effects of the decision, or 
conclusion of the impasse process.  
Access/Union Rights 

 

 

 
 

 

 
A.   GENERAL CONDITIONS  
 

ARBITRATION PROCEDURE 

1.   An appeal to arbitration may be made only by the union and only after the timely exhaustion of Article - 
Grievance Procedure.  The appeal to arbitration must be signed by the President of CUE, or designee, 
and filed with the Office of Labor Relations, Office of the President.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.   When hand delivered, proof of service must accompany the appeal to arbitration.  The date of 

receipt will be used to determine the date of the appeal for hand-delivered appeals. 

b.   When mailed, the appeal must arrive in an envelope with a U.S. Postal Service Postmark.  The 

U.S. Postal Service Postmark will be used to determine the date of the appeal for mailed appeals.  

2.  

For the purposes of this Article, time limits are calculated in calendar days, unless otherwise stated and 
deadlines which fall on a day which is not a location business day will automatically be extended to the 
next business day.  All time limits may be extended by written agreement of the parties in advance of 
the expiration of the time limit.  The union's failure to meet any time limit, or extension to a time limit, 
will render the Appeal to Arbitration ineligible for further processing and the University's preceding 
written answer will be considered final.  

3.  

If the appeal to arbitration is withdrawn, the last preceding University written response will be 
considered final.  

4.  

The decision of the arbitrator on any issue properly before him or her shall be final and binding.  

5.   An appeal to arbitration shall not prohibit efforts by the University and CUE to resolve the grievance 

during the time the appeal is pending and until such time that an arbitrator has rendered his or her 
decision.  

6.   CUE shall have full authority to settle, withdraw or otherwise dispose of any grievance brought on 

behalf of the union and/or on the behalf of employees.  An agreement by the parties to settle, withdraw, 
or otherwise dispose of a grievance appealed to arbitration shall be binding upon the grievants.  

7.   Where two or more grievances are appealed to arbitration, all grievances by or related to the same 

employee(s), or grievances which relate to the same incident, issue or course of action, may be 
consolidated by agreement of the parties.  

8. 

An appeal of an expedited grievance to arbitration may be made only by CUE in accordance with this 
section.  Requests for arbitration under the expedited grievance, 'F.2.e. of Article - Grievance 
Procedure must include a copy of the completed Grievance form.  

9.  

Time Limits  

a.   Initial filing - An appeal to arbitration must be filed within 30 calendar days of the issuance of the 

University's Step 3 decision to the union or Step 2 decision in the case of an expedited grievance 
appealed to arbitration.  

b.   University Acknowledgment of Receipt - Within 15 calendar days of the postmark or, in the case of 
hand delivery the date of receipt of the union's appeal to arbitration, the University shall mail to the 
union an acknowledgment of the receipt of the appeal and the identity of the location to which all 
relevant correspondence should be directed.  

c.   Selecting the Arbitrator and Scheduling the Hearing Date -  

i.   

Within 45 calendar days from the date the grievance was originally appealed to arbitration, 
CUE shall contact the University to select an arbitrator according to 'C of this Article.  The 
scheduling of the arbitration hearing date must be accomplished no later than 90 calendar 
days from the date the grievance was originally appealed to arbitration, except as provided 
below in c(iii).  Should the parties be unable to agree to a hearing date, the authority to 
schedule the hearing rests with the arbitrator.  The parties may extend the 90-day limit for 
scheduling the arbitration by mutual written agreement in advance of the expiration of the 
time limit.  

ii.  

In such cases the arbitrator shall be provided with a copy of the written agreement.  Failure 
to select the arbitrator and schedule the hearing according to this section will render the 

grievance ineligible for arbitration and the last preceding University written answer shall 
become final.  

iii.  

If CUE initiates the selection process in writing to the University with a preferred arbitrator 
from the arbitration panel and there is no written University response by the deadline for 
selection of the arbitrator (45 days from CUE's appeal to arbitration), then the CUE choice 
shall be final unless CUE initiates the selection process within 15 business days of the 
deadline for selection of the arbitrator.  In such case, the University shall have 15 business 
days to respond to CUE's choice of an arbitrator and the period for scheduling the 
arbitration hearing shall be extended by 10 business days.  

d.   Should the Union make a request that the grievance which has been appealed to arbitration be 

placed in abeyance for any reason, the period of abeyance shall not exceed 90 days. The Union 
further agrees that grievances placed in abeyance shall have the time limits tolled during this 
period.  Failure by the Union to reactivate the grievance within the 90-day limit following request 
that it be held in abeyance will render the grievance ineligible for arbitration and the last preceding 
University written answer shall become final.  If CUE requests selection of the arbitrator, it shall be 
according to the arbitration selection process in this section, including A.9.c.  

 
B.   EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION  
 
 

 
C.   SELECTION OF ARBITRATOR  
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Union representation at the arbitration hearing may consist of two representatives, with only one 
representative eligible for without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status.  Released time shall not be unreasonably 
denied.  If a second representative requests released time for the hearing, it shall not be unreasonably 
denied and it shall be without pay.  Only one representative may be designated as the employee advocate for 
the course of the hearing.  

Within 45 calendar days of the date of the appeal to arbitration, the arbitrator shall be selected using the 
following procedures:  

1.   Until a permanent panel is selected by the parties, on a case-by-case basis, the parties may agree to 
the selection of any qualified and available person to serve as an arbitrator.  Absent such agreement, 
the pates may agree to the selection of an arbitrator from a list provided by the American Arbitration 
Association.  

2.   Once the permanent panel is in place, the parties may mutually agree to an arbitrator.  In the event the 

parties cannot agree to an arbitrator, the parties shall then alternately strike one name each from the 
15 names.  The first strike will be determined by a flip of a coin, and the last name remaining shall be 
the arbitrator.  

3.  

If both parties disagree with the arbitrator who has been selected, the process shall be repeated once 
in its entirety.  

4.   A separate arbitrator shall be selected for each grievance appealed to arbitration, unless the parties 

agree otherwise in writing.  

5.   Except as provided in Section A.9.c.iii of this Article, the parties may agree in writing to extend the 

45-day limit for selecting the arbitrator.  Failure to select the arbitrator within 45 calendar days, or to 
mutually agree to a written extension of the time period, will render the appeal to arbitration ineligible 
for further processing and the University's preceding written answer will be considered final.  

 
D.   SCOPE OF ARBITRATION  
 

1.   Unless there is an agreement by both parties to modify the scope of the hearing, the issue(s) to be 
heard by the arbitrator shall solely and in its entirety be restricted to the issue(s) stated by Step 3.  
Issues or allegations which were known or should have been known to either party but not introduced 

by the Step 3 process shall not be introduced by either party at the arbitration hearing, except as 
provided in 'D.2., below.  

2.  When practicable the University shall inform CUE in writing of its intent to assert the issue of 

arbitrability prior to the selection of the arbitrator in its Acknowledgment of Receipt, according to A.9.b, 
above.  The issue(s) of arbitrability shall be resolved in a hearing prior to and separate from the hearing 
(if any) about the substantive facts and/or allegations in dispute, 'D.3., below.  In such a case, the 
parties shall use the selection process described in Sections A.9 and C above to select two arbitrators.   
The first arbitrator will be selected to hear the issues of arbitrability and the second arbitrator will be 
selected to decide the merits of the case if the issues are determined to be arbitrable.  Unless either 
party requests a full and complete arbitration proceeding on the arbitrability issue, the first arbitrator 
shall issue either a bench decision or, upon either party's request, a written decision within 7 calendar 
days of the completion of the arbitrability hearing.  In the event that the first arbitrator, as a result of the 
arbitrability hearing referenced above determines a matter to be arbitrable, the first arbitrator shall have 
no authority to decide the issues pursuant to the merits of the case.  A hearing on the merits of the 
case will be scheduled with the second arbitrator, unless the parties agree otherwise.  

If, following the issuance of the University Acknowledgment of the appeal, the University raises for the 
first time issue(s) of arbitrability, a single hearing on the issue of arbitrability and the substantive facts 
will be held, unless the parties agree otherwise.  If the arbitrator finds the grievance ineligible for 
arbitration, the substantive facts of the case need not be heard and the grievance shall be denied.  If 
the arbitrator finds in favor of arbitrability, the hearing shall proceed to the substantive issues raised.  

'D.1. and 'D.2. above, shall not prevent the parties from agreeing in writing to combine the arbitrability 
hearing with the hearing on the merits of the case or from agreeing to separate hearings on arbitrability 
and the merits of the case before a single arbitrator.  

 
E.   ARBITRATION PROCEEDING  
 

1.  

The parties will attempt to agree on a location for the arbitration hearing.  

2.  

3.  

The arbitration hearing shall be closed to anyone other than the participants in the arbitration hearing, 
unless the parties otherwise agree in writing.  

The arbitration hearing shall provide an opportunity for CUE and the University to examine and 
cross-examine witnesses under oath or affirmation, and to submit relevant evidence.  

4.   Settlement offers made any time during the Grievance and/or Arbitration Procedures shall not be 

introduced as evidence in the arbitration hearing.  

5.   Either or both parties may, at their discretion, file briefs with the arbitrator.  The order and time limits of 

briefing shall, on a case-by-case basis, be as agreed upon by the parties or as specified by the 
arbitrator.  Briefing time limits shall be extended by the Arbitrator upon the agreement of both parties.  

The arbitrator shall consider the evidence presented and render a written decision within 30 calendar 
days of the close of the record of the hearing.  

In all cases appealed to arbitration pursuant to the terms of this Article and this Agreement, CUE has 
the burden of initiating the steps in the procedure.  With the exception of those cases in which the issue 
is that of actions taken by the University pursuant to Article - Corrective Action/Discipline and 
Dismissal, CUE shall have the burden of proof.  The burden of proof in cases in which the issue is that 
of actions taken by the University pursuant to Article - Corrective Action/Discipline and Dismissal, shall 
be the University's.  

8.   Prior to the hearing, the parties shall endeavor to exchange the names of all known witnesses and 

relevant materials to be introduced at the hearing.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.  

4.  

 
6.  

7.  

F.   AUTHORITY OF THE ARBITRATOR  
 

1.  

The arbitrators authority shall be limited to determining whether the University has violated the 
provision(s) of this Agreement as set forth in the Union's Step 3 appeal or Step 2 appeal if expedited.  If 
such a violation is found, the arbitrator shall specify the remedy in accordance with the terms of this 
Agreement.  

 

 

 

 

2.  

3.  

4.  

5.  

The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, amend, modify, nullify or ignore in any 
way the provisions of this Agreement and shall not make any award that would, in effect, grant CUE or 
the employee(s) any terms which were not obtained in the negotiation process.  

The arbitrator shall have the authority to subpoena documents and to require the attendance of 
witnesses upon the reasonable request of either party but not upon his or her own motion.  

The expense of service and appearance fees, if any, shall be borne entirely by the party requesting the 
subpoena of witnesses and each party shall, in advance of the hearing date, inform the other party of 
the identity of witnesses it subpoenaed.  

The arbitrator shall be the sole judge of the relevancy and materiality of the evidence and testimony 
offered.  The arbitrator may receive and consider evidence but shall give appropriate weight to any 
objections made.  All documents to be considered by the arbitrator shall be filed at the hearing, or 
within the post-hearing time lines agreed to by the parties during the hearing.  

 
G.   ARBITRATION REMEDIES  
 

1.   No remedy by an arbitrator shall be made retroactive to a date earlier than 30 calendar days prior to 

the filing of the Step 1 grievance, except for the correction of an error in implementation in payment of 
wages or the correction of mathematical, calculation, recording or accounting errors relating to the 
payment of wages.  For grievances involving the correction of an error in implementation of payment of 
wages or correction of mathematical, calculation, recording or accounting errors relating to the payment 
of wages, an award of an arbitrator shall not in any case be made retroactive to a date earlier than 
three years prior to the initiation of the written grievance in Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure.  
Additionally, no remedy shall be provided for any period of time during the grievance and/or arbitration 
procedure for which an extension of time limits has been granted at the request of CUE or any time an 
employee was on strike.  

2.  

In any decision of a grievance appealed to arbitration involving retroactive payments, the appropriate 
University and CUE representatives shall expeditiously determine the identity of the payees and the 
specific amount owed each payee.  Such amount of payment shall be final and no employee or group 
of employees may subsequently grieve the amounts owed.  

3.   Remedies involving monetary payment and/or benefits shall be limited in their calculation to the 

utilization of the employee's actual and appropriate wage or benefit amount at the time of the violation 
and shall not include the awarding of interest or any other payment/credit unrelated to a University 
benefit amount or the employee's hourly wage.  

4.   Upon the motion of either party, or at his or her own discretion, an arbitrator may retain jurisdiction in 

cases involving an award of retroactive monetary payment (and/or benefits).  

5.  

If the grievance is sustained in whole or in part, the remedy shall not exceed restoring to the employee 
the pay, benefits or rights lost less any compensation from any source, including but not limited to 
Workers' Compensation, Unemployment Compensation or other employment.  

 

 

 

 

 
H.   COST OF ARBITRATION  
 

1.  

The cost of the arbitrator's fees and expenses of the hearing will be shared equally by the University 
and CUE.  If either party requests that a stenographic record of the hearing be made and/or transcripts 

 

2.  

of the stenographic record or a taped record be provided, the parties shall equally share the entire cost 
of such service and the cost of the provision of a transcript to each party and the arbitrator.  

In the event either party requests the cancellation or postponement of a scheduled arbitration 
proceeding which causes an arbitrator to impose a cancellation or postponement fee, the party 
requesting such cancellation or postponement shall bear the full cost of the cancellation/postponement 
fee.  In the event the parties agree to settle or postpone the arbitration during the period of time in 
which the arbitrator will charge a cancellation/postponement fee, the parties will equally bear the cost of 
the fee, unless the parties agree otherwise.  

PAY STATUS  

1.  

2.  

3.  

The grievant (one grievant in a group grievance) shall be in a without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status at 
the arbitration hearing.  

The University and CUE shall establish a reasonable schedule for witness(es)' testimony at the 
arbitration proceeding.  Employee witnesses who appear at the arbitration hearing at the request of 
CUE shall be in a without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status for reasonable travel time, the time spent 
actually giving testimony and/or waiting to testify in accordance with the established schedule.  Every 
effort shall be made by the University and CUE to avoid the presentation of repetitive witnesses.  The 
parties may agree to use an expedited form of arbitration to be agreed to by the parties and the 
arbitrator.  

Total release time for the grievant, employee representative and witness(es) for travel to/from the 
hearing and for participation in the hearing shall not exceed either their normally scheduled hours of 
work for the day(s) of the hearing or their actual participation in the hearing. Participants shall travel 
to/from the hearing via the most expeditious method of transportation available.  

 
4.   Not more than one employee representative will be released in without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status 

for attendance at any one arbitration hearing.  

5.  

The University shall not be responsible for any lodging, travel expenses or other expenses incurred by 
grievants, witnesses, employee or CUE representatives with regard to the union's presentation in the 
arbitration hearing.  

 
I.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
J.   EXPEDITED ARBITRATION  
 

 
K.   ARBITRATION PANEL  
 

1.  

The parties may agree to use an expedited form of arbitration to be agreed to by the parties and the 
arbitrator.  

The parties will make an attempt to agree on the panel of 30 arbitrators, with 15 on a Northern Panel 
and 15 on a Southern Panel.  Nothing shall preclude the parties from including an arbitrator on both the 
northern and southern lists.  If agreement cannot be reached on the names of the arbitrators on each 
list, the remaining number of arbitrators needed to complete a panel will be selected alternately by the 
parties.  The party selecting first shall be determined by a flip of a coin.  

2.   After one year from the date the panel members were initially selected, and annually thereafter, each 
party shall have the right to eliminate up to one arbitrator from the panel.  A party exercising this right 
shall notify the other party in writing of the name of the arbitrator to be stricken from the panel.  

3.  

In replacing arbitrators who were eliminated from the panel, the procedure in ' K.l. shall be used again 
but any arbitrator eliminated in 'K.2. above, may not be placed back on the panel until at least one year 
from the date on which such arbitrator was stricken.  

4.  

In the event one vacancy in the panel of arbitrators occurs, other than the elimination of an Arbitrator by 
the parties pursuant to 'K.3. above, such vacancy may be filled by the parties within 30 calendar days, 

 

5.  

using the procedures in 'K.l. and 'K.2. above, if the parties agree that a replacement is necessary.  In 
the event more than one vacancy in the panel of arbitrators occurs, such vacancy shall be filled by the 
parties within 30 calendar days by using the procedures in 'K.l. and 'K.2. above, unless both parties 
agree that no replacement is necessary prior to the annual panel review.  

The northern list of arbitrators shall be used for arbitrations arising at the Davis, the Office of the 
President, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, Berkeley, San Francisco, and Santa Cruz locations, unless 
the parties agree to use an arbitrator from the southern panel.  The southern list of arbitrators shall be 
used for arbitrations arising at the Santa Barbara, Los Angeles, Merced, Irvine, Riverside, and San 
Diego locations, unless the parties agree to use an arbitrator from the northern panel.  

 
 
The list of arbitrators is attached as Appendix _______. 
 
 

CATASTROPHIC/COMPASSIONATE LEAVE 

The University will implement local catastrophic leave programs for members of the Clerical and Allied 
Services unit where the location has indicated since 11/21/97 (or indicates by local notice) it intends to cover 
clerical unit employees in its program.  

 
2.   At every campus/hospital/Laboratory where a catastrophic leave sharing plan is currently in effect, the plan 

shall remain in effect for employees eligible under established campus/hospital/Laboratory guidelines.  
Clerical employees shall be eligible to participate fully in these plans as recipients and donors, consistent with 
local campus guidelines. 

The University agrees to implement a catastrophic leave program at all locations to cover at least all eligible 
clerical employees as defined by the local program by no later than February 1, 2000.  Eligibility for purposes 
of this article shall mean employees eligible to accrue or use vacation time.  When a location proposes to 
implement or to change the local catastrophic leave program with respect to clericals, it shall provide notice 
and upon written request from CUE, meet and discuss the proposal.  

CUE agrees that it will not demand to bargain further about catastrophic leave until bargaining has concluded 
on the first contract between the University and CUE and further bargaining begins according to the Duration 
Article.  

 
Memorandum of Understanding 
 
January 22, 1999 
 
CUE and the University agree that clerical employees shall be eligible immediately for full participation in operative 
Compassionate/Catastrophic Leave Sharing Programs at all locations consistent with the attached agreement and 
applicable campus/hospital/Laboratory policies.  
 
 

CORRECTIVE ACTION/DISCIPLINE AND DISMISSAL 

 
1.  

 
3. 

 
4. 

 

 
A.  GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

 
B.   TYPE OF DISCIPLINE  
 

1.  

The University shall have the authority to discipline or to dismiss a non-probationary career employee 
for just cause.  For purposes of illustration but not limitation, such actions may be taken for misconduct 
or failure to perform satisfactorily.  

2.   A non-probationary career employee who alleges that discipline and/or dismissal is not based on just 

cause may appeal such action pursuant to the provisions of Article - Grievance Procedure.  

1.  

The University may discipline an employee by written warning, suspension without pay, disciplinary 
demotion, salary decrease, or dismissal.  

2.   At least one written warning shall precede any other corrective action except when corrective action is 
the result of performance or conduct, that an employee knows or reasonably should have known, was 
unsatisfactory.  Such performance or conduct, may include, but is not limited to dishonesty, theft or 
misappropriation of University property, fighting on the job, insubordination, acts endangering others, or 
other serious misconduct.  

3.   A performance evaluation or a counseling memo is not in and of itself discipline.  

INVESTIGATORY LEAVE  

1.  

2.  

The University may place an employee on paid investigatory leave without prior notice in order to 
review or investigate allegations of employee misconduct which warrant relieving the employee 
immediately from all work duties and removing the employee from the premises.  

The investigatory leave must be confirmed in writing to the employee normally not later than three 
working days after the leave is effective.  The confirmation must include the reasons for and the 
expected duration of the leave.  

3.   On conclusion of the investigation, the employee shall be informed in writing of the disciplinary action, if 
any, to be taken.  If a disciplinary suspension is imposed, up to 15 work days of the investigatory leave 
may be converted to an unpaid disciplinary suspension provided the notice and employee responses 
provision of this Article have been followed before the final decision is made.  

 
D.  NOTICE  
 

 

 

 
C. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
E. 
 

 

1.   Written notice of intent to suspend for more than five days, demote, or dismiss shall be given to the 

employee, either by delivery of the notice to the employee in person or by placing the notice of intent in 
the U.S. mail, first class postage paid, in an envelope addressed to the employee at the employee's 
last known home address.  It shall be the responsibility of the employee to inform the University in 
writing of any change in their address.  The notice of intent shall be accompanied by Proof of Service 
indicating the date on which the notice of intent was personally delivered or mailed, and this shall 
constitute the "date of issuance" of the notice of intent.  A copy of the Notice of Intent shall be sent to 
CUE.  

2.  

The notice of intent shall:  

a. 

inform the employee of the disciplinary action which the University intends to take, the reason for 
the disciplinary action, and the effective date of the disciplinary action;  

b.   inform the employee that he or she has a right to respond either orally or in writing, within 10 

calendar days of the date of the issuance of the notice of intent in accordance with  Section E. 
below; and to whom to respond.  

c.   include a copy of the charge and material upon which the charge is based.  

EMPLOYEE RESPONSE  

The employee shall be entitled to respond, orally or in writing, to the notice of intent described above.  The 
response must be received within 10 calendar days from the date of issuance of such notice of intent in 
accordance with instructions given by the University in the written notice of intent sent to the employee.  If the 
employee chooses to respond orally, the employee may have present a Union representative, provided the 
representative is not a University employee who has been designated as supervisory, managerial, or 
confidential.  

UNIVERSITY RESPONSE  

After review of the employee's timely response, if any, the University shall notify the employee of any action 
to be taken.  The action may not include discipline more severe than that described in the notice of intent; 
however, the University may reduce the discipline without the issuance of a further notice of intent.  

DURATION  

DURATION 

The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect commencing at 12:00 
midnight on ___ 2000, and shall terminate at 11:59 p.m. on Sept. 30, 2001.  

 
B.  NEGOTIATION OF A SUCCESSOR AGREEMENT  
 

F. 
 

 
 

 
A. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

1.   CUE shall no later than March 1, 2001 serve upon the University written notice of its intent to negotiate 

a successor Agreement.  Included in such notice shall be CUE's written initial proposals regarding a 
successor Agreement.  

2.  

3.  

4. 

The University shall, no later than April 1, 2001 and following receipt of CUE's timely notice of its intent 
to negotiate a successor Agreement, present its written initial proposals regarding a successor 
Agreement to CUE.  

The parties shall meet prior to May 1, 2001 to commence negotiations under the Ground Rules of Nov. 
9, 1998.  

In the event that neither party gives timely notice as set forth in this section, this Memorandum of 
Understanding shall remain in effect on a year-to-year basis.  In the event that the Memorandum of 
Understanding continues in this manner, written proposals and a list of bargaining team members for a 
successor Memorandum of Understanding shall be presented to the University by CUE no later than 
March 1 of the applicable year.  The University shall present its written proposals no later than April 1 
of the applicable year.  

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 

 
The University and CUE agree the purpose of this Article is to encourage and facilitate the resolution of alleged 
violations, misinterpretations or misapplications of this Agreement as defined in A.1 below at the lowest level 
possible.  This preamble is not grievable or arbitrable.  
 
A.   GENERAL CONDITIONS  
 

1.   A grievance is a written complaint by an individual employee, a group of employees, or CUE that the 

University has violated a specific provision of this Agreement.  The University shall not have the right to 
use the grievance procedure.  

2.   No employee shall be subject to reprisal for using or participating in the grievance procedure of this 

Agreement.  

3. 

Filing  

a.   All grievances must be filed with the campus/hospital/laboratory Labor Relations office at the 

campus that employs the grievant and within the time frames specified in this Article.  Grievances 
must be filed on a form agreed to by the parties.  See appendix _______. 

b.   The grievance form must be signed and dated by the employee(s) or the employee's 

representative upon submission to the University.  Union grievances must be signed by the CUE 
President or designee(s).  

c.   The grievance form (see appendix -) shall be furnished to the employee by CUE and may be 

furnished by the University.  The University may provide employees with access to the form or 
direct the employee(s) to CUE.  

1)  

2)  

3)  

Only one incident shall be covered in any one grievance.  A formal grievance must identify 
the specific Article(s) and section(s) of this Agreement alleged to have been violated; 
describe the action(s) which allegedly violated the identified Article(s) and Section(s), 
together with the date(s) of the action(s); and describe the remedy requested.  

Receipt of the grievance shall be acknowledged in writing by the University as soon as 
practicable following receipt, and shall be sent to the non-work address listed on the 
grievance form.  

For the initial filing of a grievance, the date filed shall be the date received.  However, if the 
grievance is mailed, the date of the US Postal Service postmark shall be considered the 
date filed.  For grievance appeals and responses, the date of issuance shall be the date 
hand-delivered, or the date of the US Postal Service postmark, if mailed; provided the 
address used is the non-work address on the grievance form.  The date of hand delivery 
shall be the date of the stamp or handwritten acknowledgement of receipt as noted by the 
Labor Relations office.  

d.   No remedy shall exceed restoring to the grievant the pay, benefits or rights lost as a result of the 

violation of the contract, less any income earned from any other source including, but not limited to, 
workers' compensation, or any other employment.  

4.   Resolution of the grievance at any step, although final, shall not be precedent setting.  

 
B.   EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A grievant shall have the right to be represented at all steps of the grievance procedure by a CUE 
representative or a CUE-designated employee representative, or any other one person of the grievant's 
choice other than a University employee who has been designated as supervisory, managerial, or 
confidential.  CUE may have an additional advisor who shall not be a spokesperson and who shall not be on 
paid release time.  

 
C.   TIME LIMITS  
 

1.   Other than the time limits for the initial Step 1 filing of a grievance, the time limits as specified in this 
Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.  Extensions must be in writing and must 
be signed by the parties in advance.  The parties may mutually agree to skip any steps of the grievance 
procedure.  Such an agreement must be in writing and must be signed by the parties.  

2.   Deadlines that fall on a day that is not a regular business day will automatically be extended to the next 

business day.  

3.  

4.  

If a grievance is not appealed to the next step of the procedure within applicable time limits, and an 
extension has not been agreed to in advance, the grievance will be considered resolved on the basis of 
the last University response to the grievance and shall be considered ineligible for further appeal.  

If the University has not responded by the designated time limit in this Article, the grievance will be 
advanced to the next step in the grievance process if it is confirmed by CUE in writing by the deadline 
date for appeal to that step.  If CUE does not confirm the advance to the next step, the grievance shall 
be considered withdrawn and ineligible for further processing.  

D.  GRIEVANTS WHO HAVE RESIGNED  
 

Grievants who voluntarily resign their employment with the University, unless they retire, shall have their 
pending grievances immediately withdrawn and will not benefit by any subsequent settlement or disposition 
of any individual, union, or group grievance.  However, if the grievance is related to compensation negotiated 
in a UC/CUE Agreement, the grievance may be continued if it has moved to Step 2 before the date of 
resignation.  

 
E.   GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - INFORMAL REVIEW 
 

Before commencing the formal grievance procedure, an individual employee, or group of employees, with or 
without their representative, may first attempt to resolve the alleged grievance informally.  When an employee 
or representative requests such a meeting, an Informal Review meeting shall be held with the immediate 
supervisor within 15 calendar days of the request.  Informal resolution of grievances at the lowest possible 
level is an objective shared by the University and CUE.  Informal attempts of settlement to resolve the 
grievance shall not extend time limits including the initial 30-day filing deadline.  

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - FORMAL REVIEW  

1.   Step 1:  

a.   All grievances (individual, group, or union) must be filed either by U.S. mail or hand delivery, and 

received by the Labor Relations Office at the campus/hospital/Laboratory which employs the 
grievant(s) within 30 calendar days after the date on which the employee or CUE knew or could be 
expected to know of the event or action giving rise to the grievance.  If hand delivered after 
business hours, the date of receipt shall be the next business day.  

b.   Grievances received after the filing deadline will be processed solely for the purposes of 

determining whether the grievance was untimely.  

c.   Resolution of Grievances at the lowest possible level is an objective shared by the University and 

CUE.  If no Informal Review meeting took place, and either party requests it, there shall be a 
meeting held at Step 1 that includes the supervisor and the grievant.  

d.   University Review:  

1)  

The University's written response will be issued to the grievant and the representative, if 
any, within 15 calendar days after the meeting is held or, if no meeting is held, 15 days 
after the formal grievance is filed.  If the response is not issued within this time limit, the 
grievance shall be processed in accordance with C.4 above.  If the grievance is not 
resolved at Step 1, the grievance may be appealed to Step 2.  

 
e.   Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution Procedures:  

1)  

An employee alleging sexual harassment may elect to substitute a 
campus/hospital/laboratory Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution Procedure for Step 1 
of the Grievance Procedure.  An employee who elects to use the Sexual Harassment 
Complaint Resolution Procedure may return to the grievance procedure only if they filed a 
grievance within the 30-day time limit for filing.  An employee who elects to resume the 
regular grievance procedure in place of the Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution 
Procedure shall do so by sending written notice to the University.  The University's Step 1 
Grievance response will be issued within 15 calendar days after the notice is received by 
the designated University official.  

2)  

Grievances that allege a violation involving sexual harassment may, at the grievant's 
option, enter the grievance procedure at Step 2.  

2.   Step 2  

 
F.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.   If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the grievant or the Union may proceed to Step 2 by filing 

a written appeal with the Labor Relations Office within 15 calendar days of the date the written 
response is issued.  

b.   Unless the parties agree otherwise, the designated University local official shall convene a meeting 
with the grievant(s) and the grievant's representative, if any, to attempt to resolve the grievance.  
The meeting shall be convened no later than 15 calendar days following receipt of the appeal to 
Step 2.  During the Step 2 meeting, the parties shall discuss information and contentions relative to 
the grievance.  

c.   During the Step 2 process, the parties may agree in writing to amend the alleged violations stated 

in the original grievance.  

d. 

If requested by the grievant, a second CUE representative may participate in the Step 2 meeting.  
In the event a second CUE representative attends, only one representative may actively participate 
in the grievance meeting, and the University shall pay release time for only one representative.  

e.   If a grievance that alleges a violation of Article ___ - Corrective Action/Discipline and Dismissal 

only is not satisfactorily resolved at Step 2, CUE may appeal directly to arbitration in accordance 
with Article ___ - Arbitration Procedure.  

 
f.   A written decision shall be issued within 15 calendar days following the Step 2 meeting, or receipt 
of the Step 2 appeal if it is agreed that no meeting will be held.  If the University does not respond 
within the time limit, the procedures in C.4 will apply.  

3.   Step 3  

a.   All grievances that are not satisfactorily resolved at Step 2 may be appealed to Step 3.  The appeal 
must be filed with the Director of Labor Relations in the Office of the President within 15 calendar 
days of the date the University's Step 2 written answer was issued.  If the University has not issued 
its written decision to the Step 2 appeal by the deadline, the grievance shall be advanced to Step 3 
if it is confirmed by CUE in writing by the deadline to appeal to Step 3.  If CUE does not confirm the 
advance to the next step, the grievance shall be considered withdrawn and ineligible for further 
processing.  

b.   The Step 3 appeal shall identify all unresolved issues, alleged violations proposed remedies and 
shall be signed and dated by the grievant(s) or their representative.  The subject of the grievance 
as stated at Step 2 shall constitute the sole and entire subject matter of the appeal to Step 3.  

c.   The Director of Labor Relations or designee shall issue the University's written answer to a Step 3 

appeal within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the appeal.  The answer will be issued to the 
grievant when self-represented, or to the employee's representative.  

 
G.   UNION GRIEVANCES  
 

 
H.   GROUP GRIEVANCE  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CUE shall have the right to present grievances under this procedure on behalf of an individual employee, on 
behalf of a group of employees, or on behalf of itself.  It shall be the Union's responsibility to inform an 
employee that it is bringing a grievance.  

A group grievance is defined as a grievance that covers more than one employee, and that involves like 
circumstances and facts.  A group grievance must be so identified on the grievance form at Step 1.  If an 
employee wishes to withdraw from a group grievance represented by CUE, the employee shall notify CUE.  
CUE shall in turn notify the University in writing if the employee is to be withdrawn.  

CONSOLIDATION OF GRIEVANCES  

I.  
 

Grievances of two or more employees, as well as multiple grievances by or related to the same employee, or 
which relate to the same incident, issue, alleged violation, facts, or course of conduct, may be consolidated.  
Consolidation or severance of grievances shall occur by mutual, written agreement of the parties.  

Settlement offers made during attempts at informal resolution or during the steps of the Grievance Procedure 
shall not be introduced as evidence in subsequent steps of the Procedure.  

 
J.   OFFERS OF SETTLEMENT  
 

 
K.   RETROACTIVITY  
 

Settlement of grievances may or may not be retroactive as equities of a particular case may demand.  In any 
case where it is determined that the settlement shall be applied retroactively, except for the correction of an 
error in implementation in payment of wages, or the correction of mathematical, calculation, recording or 
accounting errors relating to the payment of wages, the maximum period of retroactivity allowed shall not in 
any case be made retroactive to a date earlier than 30 calendar days prior to the initiation of the written 
grievance in Step 1.  For grievances involving the correction of an error in implementation in payment of 
wages, or the correction of mathematical, calculation, recording or accounting errors relating to the payment 
of wages shall not be made retroactive to a date earlier than three years prior to the initiation of the written 
grievance in Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure.  

 
L.   EXCLUSIVE PROCEDURE  
 

The Grievance Procedure set out in this Article shall be exclusive and shall replace any other grievance 
procedure for adjustment of any disputes arising from the alleged violation of this Agreement.  Unless 
otherwise indicated within this Agreement, any previous grievance procedure or other procedure in existence 
or adopted by the University shall not apply to employees covered by this Agreement for any purposes 
whatsoever.  

 
M.   RELEASE TIME AND PAY STATUS FOR GRIEVANTS, EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES AND/OR 

WITNESSES  

 

 

 

 

1.   University-Convened Meetings  

a.   If the University convenes a meeting involving the parties to a grievance for the purposes of 

resolving the grievance and/or completing the steps of the Grievance Procedure, the grievant(s), 
witness(es), if any, and CUE-designated employee representative(s) eligible to attend such 
meeting pursuant to this Article and Article 1 - Access/Union Rights, ' C. shall be in 
without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status during the meeting, provided:  

1)  

 
2)  

3)  

such meeting occurs during the regularly scheduled hours of work of the grievant(s), 
CUE-designated employee representative, and/or witness(es); and  

advance request is made and approval is received from the supervisor of the grievant(s), 
the witness(es), and/or the CUE-designated employee representative.  Approval to attend 
shall be made on an operational needs basis and shall not be unreasonably denied.  

A grievant or the representative may request the availability of bargaining unit employee 
witnesses for University-convened grievance meetings.  The availability of bargaining unit 
employee witnesses shall be determined by their immediate supervisor(s) on the basis of 
operational needs, and such requests shall not be denied unreasonably.  Witnesses shall 
be in a without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status only for time spent at the 
campus/hospital/laboratory meetings as a witness and reasonable travel time spent at the 
witness' respective campus/hospital/laboratory location.  In instances where the witness' 
testimony is valuable and relevant to a grievant's case, paid release time for travel and 
testimony will not be unreasonably denied.  Grievants and CUE agree that every effort 

shall be made to provide witnesses that pertain solely to the subject matter and to avoid 
the presentation of repetitive witnesses and that the absence of any or all witnesses shall 
not require the meeting to be recessed or postponed.  

b.   The University is not responsible for any travel or lodging expenses or any other expenses incurred 

by the representative, grievant or union witnesses.  

c.   Paid release time for CUE designated employee representatives for purposes other than University 

convened meetings shall be provided in accordance with Article 1 - Access/Union Rights.  

 
N.   EXCLUSION OF CASUAL EMPLOYEES AND PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES  
 

The retention or release of casual employees and probationary employees (or temporary employees at 
LBNL) is at the sole discretion of the University, and shall not be subject to Article - Grievance Procedure or 
Article-- Arbitration Procedure of this Agreement.  

For Informational Purposes Only:  

When an action is taken by the University with respect to a casual employee which effectively terminates the 
casual employee during the term of his/her casual appointment and there are unique or unusual 
circumstances involved, the designated campus or Laboratory official, upon the specific request of the CUE 
president or designee will discuss the action taken.  It is understood that such requests for discussion will 
occur on a very limited basis and will not be made with respect to actions including but not limited to those 
resulting from the expiration of appointment, programs or grant funds, or the decision not to continue, rehire 
or extend the employment of a casual employee.  It is further understood that the opportunity for such 
discussion in very limited circumstances does not in any way confer upon a casual employee any property or 
process right and does not in any way obligate or commit a designated campus/Laboratory official to any 
specific course of action or procedure.  

 
O.   OTHER REPRESENTATION  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Grievants may choose a representative other than an CUE representative for purposes of grievance 
representation and adjustment.  In the event the University is involved in the resolution of a grievance from a 
grievant or group of grievants who are self-represented or represented by someone other than an CUE 
representative:  

1.  

The University shall provide CUE with a copy of the grievance and the proposed resolution, indicating 
the grievant or grievants have chosen a representative other than CUE.  

2.   CUE shall have 10 calendar days from the date the University provides the material referenced above 

in which to comment in writing on the proposed resolution.  

3.  

4.  

The University shall not implement the proposed settlement or resolution of the grievance until timely 
receipt and review of CUE's written comments, if any.  

The resolution of grievances presented by someone other than a CUE representative shall be 
consistent with the terms of this Agreement.  

 
P.   GRIEVANCE FILE  
 
  

Records involving the processing of an employee's grievance, such as the grievance form, step 
appeals/responses, and settlement documents, will be kept in a file separate from the employee's personnel 
file.  It is not the intent of this section to exclude from the employee's personnel file final disciplinary action 
documents, including those that result from a settlement agreement.  The University will keep grievance files 
confidential to the extent required by applicable law and will not disseminate their contents unless solicited for 
a legitimate University business purpose or obligated to provide for a pertinent regulation or law. 

 
A.   GENERAL CONDITIONS  
 

HEALTH AND SAFETY 

1.  

The University shall make reasonable attempts to furnish and maintain in safe working condition the 
workplace and equipment required to carry out assigned duties.  The University shall manage its 
operations in compliance with established campus/hospital/laboratory health and safety policies and 
procedures.  

2.   Within the first month of employment on a job, employees working with hazardous materials or in a 

hazardous environment, such as employees working with animals with contagious diseases and/or in 
laboratories using hazardous chemicals will receive information and training pertaining to the health 
and safety protocols in her/his department, an explanation of the health and safety rights and 
responsibilities of both the employer and the employee, instructions concerning known specific hazards 
of the employee's job, and the procedures available to employees to abate or report any unsafe or 
unhealthy working conditions.  When assigned duties include an imminent risk to life and health, as 
determined by a University health and safety professional responsible for the assessment of imminent 
risk to life and health, the University shall provide training and information to the employee prior to the 
employee assuming such duties.  

3.  

In the event an employee believes s/he is performing a hazardous job with insufficient training, the 
employee shall immediately inform the department Health and Safety Officer, if any.  After consultation, 
if any, the employee may contact the Environmental Health and Safety Department.  In such instances, 
a staff member from the EH&S department shall respond to the employee as soon as practicable.  

4.   Specific and/or general campus/hospital/Laboratory health and safety concerns may be raised in the 

labor/management meetings defined in Article ___Labor-Management Meetings.  When the union 
identifies Health & Safety as an agenda item, a Health & Safety professional will attend the 
Labor/Management meeting.  

5.  

This Article does not cover mental or emotional reactions to or perceptions of the work environment, or 
physical reactions arising from mental or emotional reactions to or perceptions of the work 
environment.  

1.   Abnormally hazardous or dangerous tasks shall be defined as those tasks having dangers or hazards 
which are objectively identifiable as constituting a clear and imminent life-threatening danger, and/or 
dangers or hazards substantially greater than the dangers or hazards inherent to the usual scope of a 
given job and for which the employee has not been trained and equipped.  

 
2.   An employee shall not be assigned to any abnormally dangerous or hazardous task at the employee's 

place of employment.  

3. 

In the event an employee regards an assigned task as abnormally hazardous or dangerous, s/he shall 
notify her/his immediate supervisor of her/his claim.  The employee shall identify the components of the 
assignment that are objectively identifiable as abnormally hazardous or dangerous.  

a.   In attempting to resolve the employee's claim, the supervisor, at her/his sole discretion, may 

attempt to make workplace task performance and/or task assignment changes consistent with 
health and safety considerations and the availability of additional or alternate personnel.  

b.   If the supervisor does not make the assignment changes specified in Section B.3.a., above, s/he 

shall have the employee's claim assessed by a health and safety professional person responsible, 
in accordance with campus/hospital/laboratory procedures, for the assessment of abnormally 
hazardous or dangerous conditions.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B.   ASSIGNMENT  
 

1)  

2)  

If, in the assessment of the University, the assignment is abnormally hazardous or 
dangerous, the supervisor shall follow campus/hospital/laboratory procedures to remedy 
the abnormally hazardous or dangerous situation prior to assigning the work to the 
employee.  Once the modifications which remedy the abnormally hazardous or dangerous 
situation are made, the employee may be required to perform the work.  

If, in the assessment of the University, the assignment is not abnormally hazardous or 
dangerous, the supervisor may order the employee to perform the assignment or, at the 
supervisor's sole non-grievable discretion, assign the affected employee to other available 
work consistent with the work usually performed by the employee or may assign another 
qualified employee to perform the assignment.  

4.  

If the employee refuses to perform tasks assigned in accordance with Section B.3.a. and b., above, 
s/he may be subject to discipline.  

INFORMATION AND TESTS  

The University, upon contracting to purchase any chemical or substance containing hazardous 
material, will obtain the material safety data sheet (MSDS) from the vendor, unless the latest version of 
the MSDS is already on hand and available.  These sheets relative to chemicals and substances used 
at the work area of an employee shall be made available to the employee or CUE on request.  Such 
information shall be maintained in the workplace by the University.  

In compliance with State and Federal law, the University shall provide to affected employee(s) access 
to data regarding toxic chemicals, seismic safety and asbestos reports.  Such data shall be readily 
available and provided to the union or employee within a reasonable time following a request.  

In the case of a suspected outbreak of a communicable disease and when the University requires 
testing for such communicable disease of patients and/or employees the University shall offer such 
tests for bargaining unit employees within the appropriate affected work areas at no cost to the 
employees.  

 

 

 
C.  
 

 

 

1.  

2.  

3.  

 
D.  DISPUTES  
 

 

2.  

 
E.   COMPLIANCE  
 
 

 
 

1.   Only disputes regarding the assignment of any abnormally hazardous or dangerous tasks are subject 

to Article ____, Arbitration Procedure, of this Agreement.  

If, as a result of a grievance or arbitration decision or as the result of an agreement between the 
University and CUE, it is determined that an abnormally hazardous and dangerous assignment was 
made, the University shall attempt to correct such situation within a reasonable time and utilizing such 
funds as may be specifically budgeted for the particular efforts with either administrative or engineering 
controls.  If, as a result of the filing of a grievance relative to the provision of information and training 
prior to the assumption of duties which include an imminent risk to life and health, the University and 
CUE agree as to the failure to provide such information and training, the University shall attempt to 
correct such situation within a reasonable time and utilizing such funds as may be specifically budgeted 
for the particular efforts.  

The University and CUE acknowledge that the University's ability to comply with the provisions of this Article 
is subject to the availability of specifically budgeted funds for the particular efforts which may be necessary in 
order for the University to meet its obligations under this Article and/or pursuant to any settlement, and/or 
award rendered pursuant to a grievance related to the provisions of this Agreement and Article.  The 
University and CUE agree that the availability of such specifically budgeted and available funds shall be a 
contingency upon which the University's compliance with a settlement, award and/or order of enforcement of 
such decision relative to a grievance related to this Article shall be dependent. 

HOLIDAYS 

 
A.   UNIVERSITY HOLIDAYS  
 
 
 
 

The University shall observe the following days as administrative holidays:  

New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Third Monday in February (or announced equivalent), Last 
Monday in May, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day (At LBNL, subject to DOE approval), Thanksgiving 
Day, Friday following Thanksgiving Day (or announced equivalent), December 24 (or announced equivalent), 
December 25, December 31 (or announced equivalent), One Administrative Holiday to be selected by the 
University.  

Unless an alternate day is designated by the University, when a holiday falls on Saturday, the preceding 
Friday is observed as the holiday, and when the holiday falls on Sunday the following Monday is observed as 
the holiday.  

If a campus/hospital/laboratory decides to substitute a floating holiday for the Administrative Holiday it shall 
provide notice to CUE and the change will affect members of this unit to the same extent and on the same 
effective date as the change is implemented at that location.  An employee must use the Floating Holiday by 
the end of the contract year or it will be lost.  No employee shall lose a holiday as a result of movement to an 
Administrative Holiday from a Floating Holiday.  

 
B.   ELIGIBILITY  
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.   An employee is eligible for holiday pay if the employee is in pay status at least fifty percent (50%) of the 

hours in the month or quadri-weekly cycle, excluding holiday hours.  

2.   An employee on pay status on the employee's last scheduled work day before the holiday and first 

scheduled work day after the holiday shall be eligible to receive holiday compensation as provided in 
Section C., below.  No employee shall be eligible for compensation for any holiday which is 
immediately preceded by or followed by an unauthorized, unpaid absence or a disciplinary suspension.  

3.   New and rehired employees shall be eligible to receive pay or compensatory time off for holidays 

preceding their first day of work provided the holiday is the first working day(s) of the month or 
quadri-weekly cycle.  A terminating employee shall be eligible to receive pay for holidays immediately 
following the employee's last day of work provided the holiday is the last working day(s) of the month or 
quadri-weekly cycle.  

4.   An eligible employee who is on approved leave without pay or temporary layoff for a period of not more 

than twenty (20) calendar days, including holidays, shall be eligible to receive pay for any holiday 
occurring during that period.  

 
C.   HOLIDAY TIME/PAY  
 

1.   COMPENSATION FOR HOLIDAYS NOT WORKED  

a.   An eligible full time employee shall receive eight (8) hours of holiday pay, regardless of the number 

of hours in her/his shift, and regardless of whether or not it was worked, except as provided in 
Section B.2., above.  

b.   An eligible part-time employee shall receive proportionate holiday pay, up to the maximum of eight 

(8)hours per holiday, as provided in Section B.2., above. Such holiday pay is calculated on the 
number of hours in pay status in the month or quadri-weekly cycle in which the holiday falls, 
excluding holiday hours.  

 

 

 

 

 
G.  
 
 

 
 

By charging time off to vacation, compensatory time off, or leave without pay, an employee may observe a 
special or religious holiday if the University determines that work schedules permit.  Such requests shall not 
be unreasonably denied.  

1.  

In the administration of the provisions of this Article there shall be no duplication, pyramiding, or 
compounding of any premium wage payments provided herein with any other wage payments provided 
in any other provision of the Agreement.  

2.    Holiday pay shall not count as time worked for the purpose of calculating overtime, except as provided 

 
D.  RELIGIOUS OBSERVANCE  
 
 

 
E.   RESTRICTIONS  
 

in Section C.2., above.  

 
F.   MAJOR HOLIDAYS  
 
 

2.   COMPENSATION FOR HOLIDAYS WORKED  

a.   With the exception of the provisions in Section C.2.b.,below, an employee required to work on a 
holiday listed above shall be paid at the employee's regular straight-time rate of pay for the hours 
actually worked. In addition, an eligible employee shall receive either compensatory time off or 
holiday pay at the option of the University at the regular straight-time rate, including any shift 
differential.  

b.   An employee shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half times (1 1/2x) regular pay for hours 

actually worked on December 25th, Thanksgiving Day and New Years Day, and no alternate dates 
may be designated by the University.  

c.  A full time employee may be required actually to work her/his normally scheduled number of work 
days, excluding the holiday(s), at the straight time rate during weeks in which a holiday(s) occurs. 
In the event an employee is required to work her/his scheduled number of days on four (4) or more 
such weeks in a calendar year, the holiday hours in the fourth (4th) holiday week and beyond shall 
be counted as hours worked.  This provision does not apply to employees who are employed to 
cover only weekend or only holiday schedules.  

Major holidays are designated for scheduling purposes, only.  Major holidays are defined as the two (2) day 
holiday period for Thanksgiving, December 25, and January 1.  The University will guarantee each member 
of the bargaining unit the opportunity to take one (1) of those two (2) day periods off regardless of the dates 
on which the University celebrates those holidays.  Operational needs permitting, the University will endeavor 
to grant one (1) additional two (2) day period off.  Straight time holiday pay eligibility shall be determined by 
the official University holiday schedule.  This provision does not apply to employees who are employed to 
cover only weekend or only holiday schedules.  

LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY 
 
Policies, procedures, definitions, and qualification in effect at PERB's certification of CUE, on November 21, 
1997, relative to holiday pay for new, rehired, or terminating full-time employees shall remain in effect for 
employees at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and shall supersede the provisions of Section 
B.3., above where in conflict with the Agreement.  

 
A.   STANDARD WORKWEEK  
 

HOURS OF WORK 

A workweek is a period of time consisting of seven (7) consecutive days.  A standard workweek is from 
Monday morning (12:01 a.m.) to midnight the following Sunday.  Workweeks beginning and ending on a day 
other than the above may be established by the University.  

 
B.   WORK SCHEDULES  
 

1.   A work schedule is the normal hours of work for an employee within a workweek.  

2.   A standard full time work schedule shall be eight (8)hours per day, excluding meal periods, on five (5) 

consecutive days.  An alternate (flexible) full time work schedule may consist of forty (40) hours in one 
workweek or eighty (80) hours within two consecutive workweeks.  

3.   Work schedules are established by the University.  Employee work schedules will be made known to 

the employees in accordance with the provisions of Section C, of this Article.  

 
C.   SCHEDULE/SHIFT ASSIGNMENTS  
 

1.   Employees will be made aware of their work schedule/shift assignment in the following manner:  
 

a.   When practicable, the University will provide an employee with at least five (5) work days notice 
prior to changing her/his work schedule for a period of less than four (4) workweeks in duration.  

b.   When practicable, the University will provide an employee with at least fifteen (15) work days notice 

prior to changing her/his work schedule/shift for 2 period of at least four (4) workweeks duration.  

c.   Employees who do not have fixed work schedules and shift assignments will be made aware of 

their work schedule/shift assignment when feasible.  

d.   If the employee's supervisor fails to provide notice of a shift change pursuant to Section C.1.a. and 

b. of this Article on three (3) or more occasions, failure to provide such notice on the third or 
subsequent occasion shall be grievable and arbitrable.  

2.   An employee may file a written indication of preference for a particular shift (i.e., day, evening, night) 

with her/his immediate supervisor.  When assigning work schedules and shifts to employees, the 
University will also consider the skills, knowledge, and abilities of the employees who normally perform 
the work involved prior to deciding upon the shift assignment.  In the event two (2) department career 
employees with substantially equal qualifications have expressed a preference, the University may use 
departmental seniority to make the shift assignment.  

3.  

The University may, at its sole non-grievable discretion, grant employee requests for flexible working 
hours, or shift assignments.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
D.   ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULES  
 

1.   Employees may request alternate work schedules.  The University will review the feasibility of 

implementing alternate work schedules in those work units for which the employee(s) indicate(s) there 
is an interest in such schedules.  

2.   Where practicable, the parties will, at the local campus/hospital/laboratory labor-management 

meetings, identify problems and concerns related to existing alternate work schedules.  

3.  

In the event the University decides to abolish, establish or change alternate work schedules in work 
areas, the University shall inform CUE at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to taking such action.  

4.   Nothing in this section shall infringe upon, interfere with or diminish in any way the University's right to 
ensure adequate staffing and coverage to meet operational requirements and necessities in an efficient 
and orderly manner.  

E.   MEAL PERIODS  
 
 

 
F.   REST PERIODS  
 

1.  

A meal period of at least one-half (1/2) hour is provided for any work period of six (6) continuous hours or 
more.  Meal periods are neither time worked nor time on pay status.  Whenever an employee is required to 
perform work or is not substantially relieved of work-related duties during a meal period, the meal period shall 
be considered time worked.  The University may reschedule an employee's meal period during the work day 
when operational needs preclude relieving the employee of work-related duties during the originally 
scheduled meal period, however, regularly scheduled meal periods shall normally be provided.  

Two rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes shall normally be granted during an eight (8) or ten (10) hour 
shift.  Three rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes shall normally be granted during a twelve (12) hour 
shift.  A part time employee shall normally be granted one fifteen (15) minute rest period for each work 
period of three (3) continuous hours or more, not to exceed two (2) rest periods per day.  

2.   Operational requirements may restrict the granting of rest breaks.  

3.   Rest periods shall not be taken at the beginning or end of a work period or accumulated for use at a 

later time.  The combining of rest periods with meal periods for some, any or all employees of a 
department/division shall be at the discretion of the University.  

1.  

Travel time between home and the work place is not time worked.  

2.   Assigned travel during an employee's regular working hours on work days is time worked.  

3.   Assigned travel that keeps an employee away from home overnight and that occurs outside the 

employee's normal working hours is not considered as hours of work.  However, assigned travel that 
does not keep an employee away from home overnight is considered as hours worked, as is travel that 
occurs during the hours an employee normally works when the travel occurs on the employee's days 
off.  

4.  

The department head may designate other travel as time worked.  

CALL-BACK  

1.   Call-back applies to an employee who is not in on-call status and is called back to the campus to work 
in her/his department after completing a shift and leaving the campus but before her/his next scheduled 
shift.  

2.   An employee called back to the work site may be assigned by the University to perform available work, 

and shall be paid for the time actually worked upon return to the campus/hospital/laboratory, or a 
minimum of three (3) hours, whichever is greater.  Call-back time, whether worked or not, is considered 
time worked for the purpose of calculating hours of overtime.  

 
J.   ON-CALL  
 
 

The University retains the right to determine the need for, and the assignment of, on-call time.  An employee 
is not considered to be in on-call status unless s/he has previously been scheduled by the University for the 
assignment.  Employees in on-call status are required to inform the employer how they can be reached or to 

 
G.   CHANGING AND CLEAN UP TIME  
 
 

 
H.   TRAVEL TIME  
 

The University shall determine when clean-up time or uniform changing time is necessary for employees.  
When the University requires that the employee must change into or out of uniform, or must engage in 
special washing or cleaning procedures, the time spent in such activities shall be considered as time worked.  

 

 

 

 

 

 
I.  
 

 

carry a pager in order to receive a call to work.  An employee in on-call status is not eligible for minimum 
call-back payments.  An employee in on-call status who is called to perform work or to return to the work site 
will be paid at her/his regular rate of pay for the time worked.  Payment for on-call time paid at the on-call rate 
is included as part of compensation in calculating the regular rate when determining premium overtime pay.  

1.   Unrestricted on-call is time during which an employee is free to engage in activities for their own 

purposes but is required to be available for work or timely return to the work site when called to work.  
Time in unrestricted on-call status is not counted as hours worked or time on regular pay status when 
employees are not required to be at the work location or to actually perform work from a location other 
than the work location.  Unrestricted on-call will be compensated at the on- call rate, as listed in 
Appendix __.  

2.   Restricted on-call is time during which the employee is required to restrict personal activities so that 
time cannot be effectively used for their own purposes.  Restricted on-call will be considered hours 
worked and will be paid at the employee's normal pay rate (or overtime if appropriate).  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
K.   OVERTIME  
 

1.   DEFINITION  

Overtime is time worked which exceeds the hours of a full-time employee's regular daily schedule on pay 
status or exceeds forty (40) hours on pay status in a workweek.  

a.   Pay status includes time worked and paid leave such as sick leave, vacation leave, holidays, 

military leave, compensatory time off and administrative leave with pay.  

b.   Overtime hours are compensated at one and one-halftimes (1 1/2X) the straight-time rate only 

when an employee has actually worked in excess of forty (40) hours in the scheduled workweek.  

c.   Overtime hours do not count toward accumulation of sick, leave, vacation, holiday, or retirement 

service credit.  

d.   Actual time worked for the purpose of computing overtime does not include hours paid in non- work 

status, such as sick leave pay, vacation pay, holiday pay, compensatory time, and paid leave of 
absence pursuant to Article __, Leaves of Absence, except as provided in Article __, Holidays, 
Section C.2.  

2.   ASSIGNMENT OF OVERTIME  

a.   The University shall decide when overtime is needed.  Overtime must be approved in advance by 

the University.  As soon as practicable after the need for overtime is determined, the University 
shall notify the employee that overtime must be worked.  Employees are expected to work overtime 
when such work is assigned.  

b.   The University will assign overtime work by rotation based on departmental seniority of those 

employees on the same shift who normally perform the work involved.  For purposes of this Article, 
rotation means that the last employee to work overtime will be the last considered for new overtime 
assignments.  For the purposes of this Article, departmental seniority may be defined by each 
department at the campus/hospital/laboratory.  Such seniority is applied in the following manner:  

1.  

2.  

 

When there are employees volunteering to work the overtime, assignment of that overtime 
shall be based on greatest seniority, provided the employee(s) have the required skills, 
knowledge and ability to do the job.  

When no employee volunteers to work the overtime, assignment of that overtime shall be 
based on inverse order of seniority, provided the least senior employee has the skills, 
knowledge and ability necessary to perform the job.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c.   The University shall assign overtime to employees irrespective of their place on the seniority or 

rotation list(s) when the necessary skills, knowledge or abilities are not possessed by the employee 
who would otherwise be assigned in accordance with the above provisions.  

3.   COMPENSATION OF OVERTIME  

 

In accordance with the following paragraphs, overtime shall be compensated at the appropriate rate 
either by pay or compensatory time off, if the department offers compensatory time off.  

a.   Unless the employee and the University agree otherwise, overtime will be paid.  An employee may, 

upon hire and thereafter during the month of June, file a written indication of preference for either 
compensatory time off or pay with her/his immediate supervisor.  The University shall grant the 
preference indicated.  

b.   Compensatory time shall be paid or scheduled by the University in accordance with departmental 

needs.  Accumulation of compensatory time is limited to a maximum of two hundred forty (240) 
hours.  An employee shall be paid for hours of overtime which exceed this limit.  An employee may 
request to schedule the use of banked compensatory time.  An employee's request for the 
scheduling of banked compensatory time shall be granted subject to the needs of the University 
and shall not be unreasonably denied.  

c.   Overtime shall be reported and paid on the basis of the nearest quarter (1/4) hour.  

1.  

Designated hospital-based eight (8) hour employees who are assigned to a fourteen (14) 
consecutive day work period,  

a.  

b.  

shall be compensated at one and one-half times (1 1/2x)the regular-straight time 
rate for hours worked which exceed eight (8) hours of actual work in any work day 
within the fourteen (14) day work period, and  

shall receive the time and one-half (1 1/2x) overtime rate after eighty (80) hours of 
actual work in the fourteen (14)day period.  

 

Any payment at the time and one-half (1 1/2x) rate for daily overtime hours worked within 
the fourteen (14) day work period shall be credited toward any time and one-half (1 1/2x) 
compensation due for hours worked in excess of eighty (80) hours of actual work in the 
work period.  

 
M.   GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

 
L.   CONSECUTIVE DAYS OF WORK  
 

1.   Employees will be paid one and one-half times (1 1/2x) their straight-time rate in the following 

circumstances, until a day off is granted:  

 

 

 

 

2.  

a.   when employees regularly scheduled to work eight (8) hours per day work more than six (6) 

continuous full shifts for more than six (6) consecutive days;  

b.   when employees regularly scheduled to work ten (10) hours per day work more than five (5) 

continuous full shifts for more than five (5) consecutive days; and  

c.   when employees regularly scheduled to work, twelve(12) hours per day work more than four (4) 

continuous full shifts for more than four (4) consecutive days.  

The consecutive days of work provisions may be waived by the employee, either at her/his request or 
as the result of a scheduling change requested by the employee that results in such consecutive days 
of work.  

1.  

2.  

There shall be no duplication, pyramiding, or compounding of any premium wage payments.  

This Article shall not be construed as a guarantee of or limitation on the number of hours per work day 
or workweek.  

LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY  

Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations, covered hours and rates in effect at PERB's 
certification of CUE, on November 21, 1997, shall remain in effect for employees at the Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory and shall supersede the provisions of this Article where in conflict with the Agreement.  

INDEMNIFICATION 

 

 
N.  
 
 

 
 

 
A.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Pursuant to and as regulated by the terms, limitations and qualifications of California Government Code 995 et 
seq., the University of California shall provide the defense and indemnification for University employees within the 
unit covered by this Agreement who are sued on account of acts or omissions arising from the course and scope of 
their employment with the University.  The provisions of and applications of the Indemnification provision are not 
subject to Article - Grievance Procedure or Article - Arbitration Procedure of this Agreement.  
 
 

LABOR MANAGEMENT MEETINGS 

LOCAL LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS  

The University and CUE agree to meet, following CUE's written request, up to four (4) times per year unless 
the parties mutually agree otherwise.  Each party shall designate a chair, who shall have responsibility to 
make arrangements for scheduling the labor-management meeting and for drawing up the agenda.  
Non-employee CUE representative(s) may attend the meetings.  
 
1.   Up to two (2) bargaining unit employees shall be released in a without-loss-of-straight-time pay status 
to attend each scheduled meeting, provided CUE has given the University at least seven (7) calendar 
days' notice of her/his selection.  The parties may agree to allow additional unit employees to attend 
the meetings and may, by mutual agreement, agree to place those attendees in a 
without-loss-of-straight-time status while in attendance at the meeting(s).  

2.  

Items to be included and discussed at the meetings are to be submitted at least seven (7) calendar 
days prior to the scheduled date of the meeting.  Items not so submitted need not be responded to at 
the meeting.  Appropriate agenda items for such meetings include:  

a.   Administration of the Agreement;  

b.   Dissemination of general information of interest to the parties;  

c.   Health and safety matters regarding bargaining unit employees;  

d.   General nondiscrimination-related issues, not pertaining to the facts of an individual employee's 

complaint(s);  

 
e.   Information regarding personnel transactions and vacancies;  

f.   Giving representatives an opportunity to express their views, or to make suggestions on subjects of 

interest to employees of the bargaining unit;  

g.   Subcontracting issues; and  

h.   Additional items mutually agreed-to by the parties for placement on the agenda.  

B.   UNIVERSITY-WIDE LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS  
 

1.  

The University (Office of the President Office of Employee & Labor Relations) and CUE agree to meet, 
following CUE's written request, once per year to discuss items such as the administration of this 
Agreement.  Additionally, the University and CUE agree to meet once per year, following CUE's written 
request, to discuss the fringe benefit plans, coverages, benefit schedules, carriers, providers, premium 
rates, eligibility criteria and the amounts, if any, of University and/or employee contributions.  The 
agenda of the meeting(s) shall be determined by mutual agreement of the parties at least seven (7) 
calendar days prior to the scheduled meeting date.  

2.   CUE may request release time for up to a total of ten (10) bargaining unit employees (but no more than 

one from each campus/Laboratory).  Such representatives will be released from work in a 
without-loss-of-straight-time status to attend the scheduled meeting(s), provided CUE has given the 
University at least seven (7) calendar days notice of her/his selection.  The parties may mutually agree 
to allow additional unit employees to attend the meetings and may, by mutual agreement, agree to 
place those attendees in a without-loss-of-straight-time status while in attendance at the meeting(s).  

 
C.   RELEASE TIME  
 

1.   Release time provided shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section A.l., Section B.2., and 

Section C.2.,of this Article.  

2.   Without-loss-of-pay-status release time will be provided for the duration of the meeting, and for 

reasonable travel time to and from the meeting.  Up to a total of eight (8)hours in one day release time 
may be provided for attendance at a university-wide labor/management meeting. Any travel and 
subsistence incurred by the employee(s) attending the meeting(s) shall be the responsibility of the 
employer or CUE.  

LAYOFF AND REDUCTION IN TIME 

 

 

 
 

  

 

 

 
A.   DETERMINATION  
 

 
B.   DEFINITIONS  
 

The University shall determine when temporary or indefinite layoffs or reductions in time are necessary.  This 
determination is non-grievable and non-arbitrable.  

1.   A layoff is an involuntary separation from employment or an involuntary transfer to a casual position of 

a career employee.  For the purposes of this Article, layoff shall include involuntary reductions in 
regularly scheduled hours of work.  Layoffs may be temporary or indefinite.  

2.   A temporary layoff is a layoff in which the University specifies a date for return to work of not more than 

four months.  

3.   An indefinite layoff is a layoff for which no date for return to work is specified, or no date of restoration 

to the former appointment rate is specified.  

4.  

For the purposes of this Article, seniority shall be calculated by full-time-equivalent months (or hours) of 
University service.  Employment prior to a break in service shall not be counted.  When employees 
have the same number of full-time-equivalent months (or hours), the employee with the most recent 
date of appointment is the "junior" employee.  

 
C.   SELECTION FOR LAYOFF  
 

1.  

If, in the judgment of the University, budgetary or operational considerations make it necessary to 
curtail operations, reorganize, reduce the hours of the workforce and/or reduce the workforce, staffing 

 
D.   NOTICE  
 

levels will be reduced in accordance with this Article.  The selection of classes for layoff shall be at the 
determination of the University.  

2.   With regard to indefinite layoff only, the order of indefinite layoff of employees in the same class within 
a layoff unit shall be in inverse order of seniority, except that the University may retain, at its discretion, 
employees irrespective of seniority who possess special skills, knowledge, or abilities which are not 
possessed by other employees in the same class and which are necessary to perform the ongoing 
function of the department/division.  

3.  

The department head shall select employees for layoff, but shall minimize indefinite layoffs from career 
positions by first reviewing the necessity for existing casual and casual/restricted positions within the 
department.  

1.   When the University determines that a layoff is imminent within the unit, it shall give CUE such advance 

notice as is reasonable under the circumstances.  The notice shall describe the general areas which 
may be affected.  

2.   When the University selects particular members of the unit for layoff, it shall give individual notice to 

each employee of the effective date of the layoff and whether the layoff is temporary or indefinite.  
Advance notice will be provided as follows:  

a.   For temporary layoff expected to last 120 calendar days or less, the University shall give, if 
feasible, 15 calendar days notice of the expected beginning and ending dates of the layoff.  

b.   For indefinite layoff, the University shall give 60 calendar days notice, if feasible.  The University 
may pay up to 30days of the 60-day notice period in lieu of notice.  In no event shall an employee 
receive less than 30 days' notice of indefinite layoff.  For conversion from temporary layoff to 
indefinite layoff, the University shall give 30 calendar days' notice, if feasible.  

c.   In the event of an anticipated indefinite layoff of five or more full-time equivalent (FTE) employees 
on the same effective date in the same layoff unit, the University will, to the extent possible, give 45 
calendar days notice to CUE.  When such notice is provided regarding the layoff of five or more 
FTE, the campus/hospital/laboratory will, upon receipt of a timely written request from CUE, meet 
with CUE to discuss the layoff.  

3.  

The University shall notify CUE at the same time it notifies employees that they are to be laid off.  

4.   When the University determines that there is to be a change in a layoff unit within the bargaining unit, it 
shall give CUE advance notice of at least 30 days, if feasible, and upon request shall meet and discuss 
such proposed changes.  Changes to a layoff unit shall not occur more frequently than each 120 
calendar days.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
E.   PREFERENTIAL REHIRE  
 

1.   A non-probationary career employee who is indefinitely laid off shall have preferential rehire status for 
an active vacant career position.  An active career position is a position which the University, in its sole 
discretion, determines to fill. Such employees are rehired provided: 

a.   the active, vacant career position is in the same bargaining unit and at the same 

campus/hospital/laboratory as the position from which the employee was laid off; and  

b.   the active, vacant career position is in a class with the same or lower salary range maximum as the 

class from which the employee was laid off; and  

c.   the active, vacant career position is at the same or lesser percentage of time as the position from 

which the employee was laid off.  

2.   Employees who are eligible for preferential rehire status with less than five years of seniority at the time 

the layoff occurs shall retain preferential rehire status eligibility for one year.  Employees who are 
eligible for preferential rehire status with five years, but less than 10 years seniority at the time the 
layoff occurs shall retain preferential rehire status eligibility for two years.  Employees who are eligible 
for preferential rehire status with 10 years or more seniority shall retain preferential rehire status 
eligibility for three years.  

3.   An employee may exercise his or her rights to preferential rehire immediately after the employee 

receives written notification of layoff and meets with the campus representative designated in the layoff 
notice.  

4.   Employees preferentially rehired from layoff status who fail to perform satisfactorily may, at any time 

during the six months following such return, be returned to layoff status with restoration of full 
preferential rehire status.  In addition, an employee, at his or her option, may request to be returned to 
layoff status within 60 calendar days of rehire.  The time on job status will not be counted as part of 
preferential rehire eligibility time.  

5.   Preferential Rehire Termination 

The preferential consideration described above shall terminate at the end of the period of eligibility 

described in ' E.2. above, or if an employee:  

a.   refuses an offer to return, at the same or greater percentage of time, to that department/division 

and class from which laid off; or  

 
b.   accepts any career position; or  
 
c.   refuses two offers of employment for a career position at the same or higher salary level and the 

same percentage of time as the position held by the employee at the time of layoff; or  

d.   fails to respond to a written notice of a career employment opportunity within 15 calendar days. 
The15-calendar day response period shall begin immediately upon personal notice of the career 
employment opportunity or 10 calendar days from the date written notice is postmarked.  

6.  

If an employee voluntarily reduces his or her time for a reason listed in ' C.l. above., within one year 
prior to a layoff, the employee is entitled to recall/rehire rights at a percentage of time equal to that from 
which the employee voluntarily reduced his or her time.  The request for the voluntary reduction must 
be submitted by the employee in writing and approved by the supervisor and must state the effective 
date and the percentage of the reduction in time.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
F.   RECALL  
 

1.   A non-probationary career employee who is indefinitely laid off shall be recalled in order of seniority to 

an active, vacant career position, provided:  

a.   The active, vacant career position is in the same class and department at the same or lesser 

percentage of time as the position from which the employee was laid off.  

b.   The employee is qualified to perform the duties of the active, vacant career position.  

2.   Employees who are eligible for recall shall retain recall eligibility for three years from the date of layoff.  

3.   Employees recalled from layoff status to a new position who fail to perform satisfactorily may, at any 

time during the six months following such return, be returned to layoff status with restoration of full 
recall rights.  The time on job status will not be counted as part of recall eligibility time.  

 
G.   SEVERANCE  
 

4.   Recall Termination  

The right to recall terminates at the end of the period of eligibility or if an employee:  

a.   refuses a recall to work; or  

b.   refuses two offers of reemployment in career positions at the same or greater percentage of time 

and at the same or higher salary level; or  

c.   accepts a career position at the same or higher salary level within the University.  

1.   A career employee who has received a notice of indefinite layoff may, at the sole non-grievable 

discretion of the University, be offered severance pay in lieu of preferential rehire and recall rights.  
Each campus department shall, in each instance of layoff where severance pay is offered, exercise the 
option of offering severance in lieu of preferential rehire and recall rights to all employees in the 
department affected by the layoff.  Severance pay shall be in accordance with the following.  

a.   Employees with less than five years of service receive two weeks or 10 workdays of severance.  

b.   Employees with five or more years of service receive five weeks or 25 workday's severance, plus 

one-week severance for each additional full year of service up to a maximum of 15 weeks' 
severance.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
I.  
 

 
J.  
 

2.   CUE will be notified if an employee has been offered severance rather than recall/preferential rehire.  

Should an employee be returned to work as a result of a grievance, arbitration, or settlement 
agreement related to the layoff, any severance pay received will be deducted from the back pay award.  
An employee cannot be returned to work without first repaying the severance or signing a severance 
repayment agreement.  

 
H.   CONTINUITY OF SERVICE UPON REEMPLOYMENT  
 

1.   A temporary layoff does not create a break in service.  Reemployment in a career position within the 
period of right to recall provides continuity of service and continuation of previously accrued seniority 
and, therefore, no break in service.  However, seniority and benefits accrue only when an employee is 
on pay status.  

2.   An employee who has been laid off and is rehired at another University location within the employee's 

period of recall will be eligible for the following as result of no break in service:  

a.   reinstatement of all sick leave accumulated from prior service,  

b.   reinstatement of vacation accrual rate,  

c.   calculation of University service based on full-time equivalent months (or hours) of University 

service, and  

 
d.   buy-back of UCRP service credit according to the University Benefit Regulations  

EFFECT ON BENEFIT COVERAGE  

See Article - University Benefits, ' C.l.  

LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY  

Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications and calculations in effect at PERB's certification of CUE on 
November 21, 1997, relative to severance pay, that are in conflict with the Agreement, shall remain in effect 
for employees at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. 

 
A.   GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 
 

LEAVES OF ABSENCE 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subject to the provisions of this Article, leaves of absence may be with or without pay, may be for medical 
purposes and/or non-medical reasons, and are subject to the approval of the University.  Nothing shall 
preclude the University, on a campus-by-campus basis, from establishing, implementing, or continuing a 
Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave policy covering Clerical and Allied Services unit employees.  

1.   DEFINITIONS  

a.   Non-medical leaves of absence, with or without pay, include: Family Care Leave, leave for jury 
duty, voting, blood donations, administrative or legal proceedings, emergencies, and University 
functions.  

b.   Medical Leaves with or without pay, include: Pregnancy Disability Leave, Family Care/Medical 

Leave, and Disability Leave.  

c.   FMLA is the federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.  

d.   CFRA is the California Family Rights Act of 1995.  

2.   USE OF FAMILY CARE AND MEDICAL LEAVE ENTITLEMENT  

a.   If an employee eligible for a Family Care/Medical Leave takes a leave for her/his own serious 

health condition, (as defined in ' B.l.e. below), the absence from work shall be deducted from the 
employee's Family Care/Medical Leave entitlement.  

 
b.   If an employee is ineligible for Family Care/Medical Leave or if the employee has exhausted her/his 

leave year entitlement, an approved disability leave of absence may be provided for the period(s) 
an eligible employee is absent from work for verifiable medical reasons as provided in ' C. and ' D. 
of this Article.  

3.   BENEFIT ELIGIBILITY WHILE ON LEAVE WITHOUT PAY  

a.   Special Benefit Eligibility For Family Care/Medical Leaves - An eligible employee shall have 

University-provided health benefits continued for the period of the Family Care/Medical Leave in 
accordance with 'B.9. of this Article.  

b.   An approved leave without pay shall not be considered a break in service.  

c.   The provisions of Article __ Sick Leave, Article __ Vacation, and Article __ University Benefits, 

shall apply when employees are on an approved leave without pay.  

d.   An eligible employee on approved leave without pay may elect to continue University-sponsored 

insurance coverages (as determined by plan documents or regulations) for the period of the leave 
by remitting the entire premium amount due for the period of the approved leave, in accordance 
with the provisions of the applicable plan(s).  Regulations of the retirement systems determine the 
effects of leave without pay on retirement benefits.  

4.   REQUESTS FOR LEAVE  

Except as provided under 'B.3., Family Care/Medical Leave Notification requests for leaves of absence and 
extensions, with or without pay, shall be submitted in writing to the University.  Such requests shall be 
submitted sufficiently in advance of the requested leave date to provide the University time to assess the 
operational impact of granting the request.  All requests for leaves of absence shall contain the requested 
beginning and end date of the leave, and any additional information as required.  

5.   DURATION  

a.   The start date of the leave, the terms of the leave and the date of return from the leave are 

determined when the leave is granted, and shall be communicated to the employee, in accordance 
with the provisions of this Article.  Except as provided under 'B.3.b., Family Care/Medical Leave, 
written confirmation shall be provided when the University determines such confirmation is 
appropriate.  

b.   Except as provided for under Pregnancy Disability, 'C.1.b.2., the aggregate maximum of leaves 

taken in any combination shall not exceed six (6) months in any one (1) year period.  

c.   No employee with a predetermined appointment end date or predetermined date of separation 
shall be granted a leave of absence beyond her/his appointment end date or the predetermined 
date of separation.  

6.   RETURN TO WORK  

a.   Except as provided in 'B, Family Care/Medical Leave, 'C, Pregnancy Disability Leave and Article _, 
Military Leave, an employee who has been granted an approved leave with or without pay shall be 
reinstated to the same or a similar position in the same department upon expiration of the leave, in 
accordance with the provisions of this Article.  If the position held has been abolished or affected by 
layoff during the leave, the employee shall be afforded the same considerations which would have 
been afforded had that employee been on pay status when the position was abolished or affected 
by layoff.  

b.   Failure to provide a medical release to return to work, as required in 'B.5 and 'D.4 may result in the 

delay of reinstatement until the employee submits the required medical release certification.  

c.   An employee who has exhausted her/his original leave entitlement and who has been granted 
additional leave under another section of this Article shall be reinstated in accordance with the 
provisions of the section under which the additional leave was granted.  The employee shall be 
advised in writing, at the time the additional leave is granted. 

d.   An employee who fails to return to work from a leave of absence on the approved anticipated date 

of return shall be considered to have abandoned her/his job, in accordance with Article - 
RESIGNATION.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B.   FAMILY CARE AND MEDICAL LEAVE  
 
  

Family Care Leave includes Parental Leave and Family Illness Leave.  Medical Leave is provided for the 
employee's own serious health condition.  

1.   DEFINITIONS  

a.   PARENTAL LEAVE is leave to care for the employee's newborn or a child who has been placed 

with the employee for adoption or foster care.  

b.   FAMILY ILLNESS LEAVE is leave to care for the employee's child, parent or spouse with a serious 

health condition.  

c.   A FAMILY MEMBER for the purposes of family care leave is the employee's biological, adopted, or 

foster child, stepchild or legal ward who is under eighteen (18) years, a child for whom the 
employee stands in loco parentis or an adult dependent child; a biological, foster, or adoptive 
parent, stepparent or legal guardian, an individual who stood in loco parentis while the employee 
was a child; or spouse, or partner in marriage as defined in California Civil Code '4100.  

d.   A SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION FOR THE PURPOSES OF FAMILY ILLNESS LEAVE is an 

illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition which warrants the participation of the 
employee to provide supervision or care during a period of treatment or incapacity including 
psychological comfort.  

 
e.   MEDICAL LEAVE is leave granted for the employee's own serious health condition which makes 

the employee unable to perform any one or all of the essential assigned functions of the 
employee's position.  An employee disabled because of pregnancy-related conditions is covered 
under 'C. - Pregnancy Disability, below.  

f.   AN EMPLOYEE'S OWN SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION is an illness, injury, impairment, or 

physical or mental condition, that renders the employee unable to perform any one or all of the 
essential functions of the employee's position and involves the following:  

1)  

2)  

inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical care facility, or  

continuing treatment by a health care provider for:  

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

a period of incapacity of more than three (3) consecutive calendar days, or  

any period of incapacity or treatment due to a chronic serious health condition, or  

any period of incapacity which is permanent or long-term due to a condition for 
which treatment may not be effective  

g.   A HEALTH CARE PROVIDER is an individual who is licensed in California or is duly licensed in 

another State or jurisdiction, to hold either a physician's and surgeon's certificate or an osteopathic 
physician's and surgeon's certificate, or who is duly licensed as a podiatrist, dentist, clinical 
psychologist, optometrist, chiropractor (limited to the treatment of the spine to correct a subluxation 
as demonstrated by x-ray to exist), nurse practitioner or nurse mid-wife performing within the scope 
of her/his duties, or Christian Science practitioner or any health care provider that the employee's 
health plan carrier recognizes for purposes of payment.  

h.   "1,250 HOURS OF ACTUAL SERVICE" means time actually spent at work and does not include 

any paid time off including but not limited to an employee's use of accrued vacation, compensatory 
time, or sick leave, nor does it include time paid for holidays not worked or time spent in 
unrestricted on-call status.  

2.   ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND DURATION  
 

a.   Employees who have at least twelve (12) cumulative months of University service, and have at 

least 1,250 hours of actual service during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the 
commencement of the leave, are eligible for and shall be granted up to a total of twelve (12) 
workweeks of Family Care/Medical Leave in the leave year.  For the purposes of this Article and 
section, only, all prior University service, including service with the Department of Energy 
Laboratories, shall be used to calculate the twelve-month service requirement.  

b.   Family Care/Medical Leave is unpaid leave, except as otherwise provided in this Article.  

1)  

An employee's use of her/his accrued Compensatory Time Off cannot be deducted from 
the twelve (12) workweek Family Care/Medical Leave maximum, and shall not be granted.  
All other time off used for family care and/or medical leave purposes including Work 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Incurred Injury and Illness leave, shall be deducted from the twelve (12) workweek Family 
Care/Medical Leave maximum.  

2)  

Family Care/Medical Leave shall not exceed twelve (12) workweeks in any twelve (12) 
month period, and the leave year shall commence on the date the employee first takes 
leave.  In the event University policy and/or State or Federal law result in a different date of 
commencement for this twelve-month period, the commencement period for employees in 
this bargaining unit shall conform to the commencement date applicable to all other 
University employees.  

c.   If the employee has exhausted her/his entitlement to Family Care/Medical Leave, s/he may apply 

for additional leave pursuant to this Article.  

3.   NOTIFICATION  

a.   If the employee learns of the event giving rise to the need for leave more than thirty (30) calendar 
days in advance of the leave's anticipated initiation date, the employee shall give the University at 
least thirty (30) calendar days notice of the need for leave.  An employee who fails to give thirty 
(30) days' notice for a foreseeable leave with no reasonable basis for the delay may have the 
family care and/or medical leave delayed until thirty (30) days after the date on which the employee 
provides notice.  

1)  

2)  

If the need for leave is foreseeable due to a planned medical treatment or the supervision 
of a family members medical treatment, the employee shall make reasonable efforts to 
schedule the treatment so as to not unduly disrupt the University's operations.  

If the need for leave is unforeseeable or actually occurs prior to the anticipated date of 
foreseeable leave, the employee shall provide the University with as much notice as 
practicable and, at a minimum, within five (5) calendar days after learning of the need for 
leave.  

b.   The University shall determine whether the employee meets the eligibility requirements and 

therefore qualifies for a Family Care/Medical Leave and shall, as soon as practicable, notify the 
employee whether the leave is designated or provisionally designated as Family Care/Medical 
Leave.  The start date of the leave, the terms of the leave and the date of return from the leave are 
determined when the leave is granted.  

c.   Extensions to the Family Care/Medical Leave, up to the aggregate maximum of twelve (12) weeks 

in the leave year, may be granted in accordance with 'B.4.e. of this Article.  

4.   CERTIFICATION  

a.   FOR THE EMPLOYEE'S OWN SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION.  When a leave of absence is 

requested for the employee's own serious health condition, the University may, at its discretion, 
require that an employee's request for leave be supported by written certification issued by the 
employee's health care provider.  When the University requires certification, the University shall 
inform the employee of its requirement in writing.  Certification may be provided by the employee 
on a form given to the employee by the University and shall, regardless of the format in which it is 
provided, include:  

1)  

2)  

certification that the employee has a serious health condition as defined in 'B.l.f, above, 
and  

a statement as to whether the employee is unable to perform any one or more of the 
essential assigned functions of the position including a statement of the function(s) the 
employee is unable to perform, and  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3)  

4)  

5)  

the date on which the employee's serious health condition began, if known, the probable 
duration of the condition and the employee's probable date of return, and  

whether it will be necessary for the employee to take leave intermittently or to work on a 
reduced work schedule, and if so, the probable duration of such schedule, and,  

if the condition is chronic and the employee is presently incapacitated, the duration and 
frequency of episodes of incapacity.  

b.   FOR THE EMPLOYEE'S FAMILY MEMBER.  When a leave of absence is requested for the 

serious health condition of the employee's family member, the University may, at its discretion, 
require that an employee's request for leave be supported by written certification issued by the 
family member's health care provider.  When the University requires certification, the University 
shall inform the employee in writing.  Certification may be provided by the employee on a form 
given to the employee by the University and shall, regardless of the format in which it is provided, 
include:  

1)  

2)  

3)  

4)  

certification that the employee's family member has a serious health condition as defined in 
'B.l.d., above, and  

a statement that the family member's serious health condition warrants the participation of 
the employee to provide supervision or care during a period of the treatment or incapacity 
or psychological comfort, and  

whether the employee's family member will need care intermittently or on a reduced work 
schedule and the probable duration that the employee is needed to provide care.  

In addition, the employee will be required to certify either on the form or separately the care 
s/he will provide the family member and the estimated duration of the period of care.  

c.   CONFIRMATION OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIP.  The University may, at its sole non-grievable 

discretion, require an employee requesting leave to care for a family member with a serious health 
condition or requesting Parental leave, to provide documentation of the familial relationship or proof 
of birth, placement for adoption or in foster care.  The employee's failure to provide documentation 
within fifteen (15) calendar days of the University's request may, at the sole non-grievable 
discretion of the University, result in either  

1)  
 
2)  

a delay of the leave until the required documentation is provided or  

if the leave has not begun, it will be denied.  If the leave has begun, the leave will not be 
designated as Family and Medical Care Leave and may be discontinued by the University.  

d.   QUESTIONED MEDICAL OPINIONS.  Should the University question the validity of the 

employee's certification for her/his own serious health condition the University may, at its sole 
non-grievable discretion, require the employee to obtain a second medical opinion from a second 
health care provider selected by the University.  Should the second medical opinion differ from the 
opinion of the employee's own health care provider, the University may, at its sole non-grievable 
discretion, require a third medical opinion from a third health care provider, jointly agreed to by the 
employee and the University.  The University shall bear the cost of the second and third opinions, 
and the third opinion shall be final.  

e.   ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATION AND/OR RECERTIFICATION.  If additional leave is requested or 

should the circumstances of the leave change, the University may, at its sole non-grievable 
discretion, require the employee to obtain recertification.  Such requests for subsequent 
certification and/or recertification may be either verbal or in writing.  

1)  

If certification and/or recertification is required, the employee shall return the certification 
within fifteen (15) calendar days of the University's request, where practicable. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2)  

Failure to provide certification and/or recertification for a foreseeable leave within the 
requested time may result in delay of the leave until the required certification is received.  
Failure to provide certification for an unforeseeable leave within the requested time period 
may result in discontinuance of the leave until the required certification is provided.  If the 
employee fails to provide certification, the leave is not Family Care/Medical Leave and will 
be denied as family care leave, in accordance with the provisions of ' B.4.c.2).  

f.   FAILURE TO PROVIDE COMPLETE CERTIFICATION AND/OR RECERTIFICATION.  If the 

employee fails to provide a completed certification and/or recertification, the employee shall be 
given at least fifteen (15) calendar days to perfect the certification and/or recertification.  Failure to 
perfect an incomplete certification and/or recertification within the requested time period may result 
in delay of the leave or discontinuance of the leave until the required certification and/or 
recertification is provided.  If the employee fails to provide a complete certification and/or 
recertification, the leave is not Family Care/Medical Leave and will be denied in accordance with 
the provisions of 'B.4.c.2.)  

5.   RETURN FROM FAMILY CARE/MEDICAL LEAVE FOR OWN HEALTH CONDITION  

a. 

 The employee shall provide her/his employing department at least ten (10) days notice of her/his 
anticipated return to work.  

b.   An employee who has been granted a Family Care/Medical Leave for her/his own serious health 

condition, must provide a written medical release to return to work prior to returning to work.  

c.   The employee who has been medically released to perform the essential assigned functions of 

her/his job, shall be returned in accordance with the provisions of B.10.  

d.   Failure to provide a medical release to return to work may result in the delay of reinstatement until 

the employee submits the required medical release certification.  

6.   USE OF ACCRUED PAID LEAVE  

a.   Family Care/Medical Leave is unpaid, except for the use of sick leave and/or the use of accrued 

vacation, as provided in this Article:  

b.   An employee on leave for her/his own serious health condition:  

1)  

2)  

 
3)  

shall use accrued sick leave in accordance with the University's disability plan 
requirements; or  

if not eligible for University disability benefits and not on leave as a result of a 
work-incurred injury or illness, shall use all accrued sick leave prior to taking leave without 
pay; or  

if on leave due to a work-incurred injury or illness, may use accrued sick leave as provided 
in Article __ Work Incurred Injury or Illness.  

c.   An employee on leave for her/his own serious health condition shall use accrued vacation time 

prior to taking leave without pay, if all accrued sick leave has been exhausted.  

d.   An employee on Family Care Leave for Family Illness may use sick leave in accordance with 

Article __ Sick Leave, 'B.3., and shall use accrued vacation time prior to taking leave without pay.  

7.   DURATION  

a.   For the purposes of Family Care/Medical Leave, only, twelve (12) workweeks is equivalent to 

four-hundred eighty (480) hours of scheduled work for full-time career and casual employees who 

are normally scheduled for an eight (8) hours per day five (5) days per workweek (8/40) schedule.  
While the use of Family Care/Medical Leave need not be consecutive, in no event shall an 
employee's aggregate use of Family Care/Medical Leave exceed a total of twelve (12) workweeks 
within the leave year.  

b.   HOURLY CONVERSION FOR PART-TIME OR ALTERNATIVELY SCHEDULED EMPLOYEES.  

For employees who work part-time or a schedule other than an 8/40, the number of Family 
Care/Medical Leave hours to which the employee is eligible shall be adjusted in accordance with 
her/his normal weekly work schedule.  An employee whose schedule varies from week to week is 
eligible for a pro-rated amount of Family Care/Medical Leave based on her/his hours worked over 
the previous twelve (12) weeks preceding the leave.  

c.   EMPLOYEE REQUESTS FOR REDUCED WORK SCHEDULES.  When medically necessary and 

supported by medical certification, the University shall grant an eligible employee's request for a 
reduced work schedule or intermittent leave including absences of less than one (1) day.  When 
granted, the University will count only the time actually spent on the intermittent leave or reduced 
work schedule towards the employee's entitlement of four-hundred eighty (480) hours in the leave 
year.  

d.   ALTERNATE ASSIGNMENTS TO ACCOMMODATE INTERMITTENT LEAVE OR REDUCED 
WORK SCHEDULE.  When the employee requests an intermittent leave or a reduced work 
schedule, the University may, at its sole, non-grievable discretion, require the employee to transfer 
temporarily to an available alternate position for which the employee is qualified and which better 
accommodates the employee's recurring period of leave.  Such transfer shall have equivalent pay 
and terms and conditions of employment, but does not need to have equivalent duties.  

8.   PARENTAL LEAVE  

a.   Parental Leave is a form of Family Care/Medical Leave to care for the employee's newborn or a 

child placed with the employee for adoption or foster care. Such leave must be initiated and 
concluded within one (1) year of the birth or placement of the child.  The University shall grant a 
Parental Leave subject to the limitations described below.  If requested and taken immediately 
following a Pregnancy Disability Leave, an employee eligible for FMLA/CFRA at the beginning of 
her Pregnancy Disability leave shall be granted the unused portion of CFRA/FMLA leave for 
Parental Leave purposes, up to a maximum of twelve (12) workweeks.  The amount available for 
use is determined by the amount which the employee has previously used under CFRA/FMLA in 
the leave year  

b.   REQUESTS FOR PARENTAL LEAVE.  The employee shall request Parental Leave sufficiently in 

advance of the expected birth date of the child or placement of a child for adoption or foster care to 
allow the University to plan for the absence of the employee.  The anticipated date of return from 
Parental Leave shall be set at the time such leave commences, or if requested in conjunction with 
a Family Care/Medical Leave on account of the pregnancy/childbearing disability, shall be set at 
the time such Family Care/Medical Leave commences.  Parental Leave, when taken for adoption 
or foster care, could commence prior to the date of placement.  

c.   DURATION.  Parental Leave, alone, shall not exceed twelve (12) workweeks within the leave year 
as defined in 'B.2.b.2 and B.7., above. However, when Parental Leave is combined with leave for 
pregnancy-related and/or childbearing disability only, the total Family Care/Parental Leave shall not 
exceed seven (7) months in the leave year.  

1)  

2)  

An employee on Parental Leave shall use accrued vacation time prior to taking leave 
without pay.  

The University shall grant a Parental Leave of at least two (2) weeks duration on any two 
(2) occasions during the leave year.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
C.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The University, at its sole non-grievable discretion, may require that any additional Parental Leave 
requested during this same time period be for a minimum duration of two (2) weeks, unless otherwise 
required by law.  

9.   CONTINUATION OF HEALTH BENEFITS  

An eligible employee who is on an approved Family Care and/or Medical Leave shall be entitled to 
continue participation in health plan coverage (medical, dental, and optical) as if s/he were on pay 
status for a period of up to twelve (12) workweeks in the leave year.  However, an employee on an 
approved Pregnancy Disability Leave who is dually eligible for leave under the federal Family and 
Medical Leave Act and the California Family Rights Act, shall be entitled for up to twelve (12) 
workweeks of health plan coverage for the combined Pregnancy Disability Leave/Parental Leave which 
runs concurrently with FMLA anc/or CFRA.  Other group insurance coverage and retirement benefits 
shall be continued in accordance with the provisions of the applicable group insurance and retirement 
system regulations.  

10.   RETURN TO WORK  

When an employee has been granted an approved Family Care/Medical Leave of Absence and returns 
within twelve (12) workweeks of the initiation of the leave, s/he shall be reinstated to the same or an 
equivalent position upon expiration of the leave.  If the position has been abolished or otherwise 
affected by layoff and an equivalent position is not available, the employee shall be afforded the same 
considerations that would have been afforded had the employee been on pay status when the position 
was abolished or affected by layoff.  No employee with a predetermined appointment end date or 
predetermined date of separation shall be granted a leave of absence beyond her/his appointment end 
date or the predetermined date of separation.  An employee who has been granted a Family 
Care/Medical Leave for her/his own health condition, may be required by the University to provide a 
written medical release to return to work prior to her/his return to work.  

PREGNANCY DISABILITY LEAVE  

1.   DURATION  

a.   During the period of verified pregnancy-related and/or childbearing disability, an employee is 

entitled to and the University shall grant up to four (4) months of Pregnancy Disability Leave for 
pregnancy/childbearing disability purposes.  

b.   DURATION.  If the employee is eligible for Family Care/Medical Leave, pursuant to 'B, above, such 

leave shall be deducted from an employee's federal Family and Medical Leave entitlement.  

1)  

2)  

If the pregnancy-related/childbearing medical disability continues beyond four (4) months, 
a medical disability leave of absence may be granted in accordance with 'D., below, for a 
total medical absence not to exceed six (6) months.  

Additionally, the employee may be eligible for Parental Leave, pursuant to 'B.8., above, to 
care for her newborn child. The total Family Care Leave, when combined with a Pregnancy 
Disability Leave, shall not exceed seven (7) months in the leave year.  

c.   PREGNANCY DISABILITY LEAVE MAY CONSIST OF leave with or without pay, however, an 

employee shall be required to use accrued sick leave in accordance with the University's Disability 
Plan.  If sick leave is exhausted, the employee may elect to use accrued vacation time before 
taking leave without pay.  

d.   ADDITIONAL FAMILY CARE LEAVE IN THE LEAVE YEAR.  Upon termination of the Pregnancy 

Disability Leave, which runs concurrently with federal Family Care/Medical Leave, an eligible 
employee shall also be entitled to the unused portion of CFRA/FMLA leave up to a maximum of 
twelve (12) workweeks for any covered reason except leave for a pregnancy-related medical 

condition.  The amount available for use is determined by the amount that the employee has 
previously used under FMLA/CFRA in the leave year.  

2.   AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO OR IN ADDITION TO PREGNANCY DISABILITY LEAVE, the University 
shall temporarily transfer a pregnant employee to a less strenuous or hazardous position upon the 
request of the employee and with the advice of the employee's health care provider, if the transfer can 
be reasonably accommodated.  For the purpose of this section, a temporary transfer includes a 
temporary modification of the employee's own position to make it less strenuous or hazardous.  A 
temporary transfer under this section is considered time worked and shall not be counted toward an 
employee's entitlement of up to four (4) months of pregnancy disability leave, unless the employee is 
also on a reduced work schedule or an intermittent leave schedule.  

3.   REDUCED WORK SCHEDULE - When medically necessary, and supported by medical certification, 
the University shall grant an employee Pregnancy Disability Leave on a reduced work schedule or on 
an intermittent basis including absences of less than one (1) day.  Only the time actually spent on the 
intermittent or reduced leave schedule shall be counted towards the employee's entitlement of four (4) 
months in any twelve (12) month period.  

4.   RETURN TO WORK - An employee who has been granted a temporary transfer and/or Pregnancy 

Disability Leave shall be reinstated to the same position, provided that the employee returns to work 
immediately upon termination of the Pregnancy Disability Leave and provided that the aggregate 
duration of all leaves granted for a given pregnancy does not exceed four (4) months.  If the same job 
has been abolished or affected by layoff, the employee shall be reinstated to a similar job.  If a similar 
position is not available, the employee shall be afforded the same considerations which would have 
been afforded had that employee been on pay status when the position was abolished or affected by 
layoff. The date of reinstatement is determined when the leave is granted.  

5.   CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS  

An employee on Pregnancy Disability Leave who is also eligible for leave under the federal Family and 
Medical Leave Act and the State of California Family Rights Act, shall be entitled, if eligible, to continue 
participation in health plan coverage (medical, dental, and optical) as if on pay status for up to twelve 
(12) workweeks in the leave year.  Other group insurance coverage and retirement benefits shall be 
continued in accordance with the provisions of the applicable group insurance and retirement system 
regulations.  

DISABILITY LEAVES OTHER THAN FMLA/CFRA/PREGNANCY DISABILITY ENTITLEMENT  

1.   A disability leave of absence is the period(s) an eligible career employee is granted leave from work for 

medical reasons in accordance with 'D.2., below.  This leave includes the combined use of accrued 
sick leave and the disability leave of absence without pay in accordance with the provisions of this 
Article and Article - - Sick Leave.  Disability leaves of absence with or without pay are provided for 
leaves due to non-work related illnesses or injuries.  

2.   ELIGIBILITY  

a.   An employee may be eligible for a disability leave of absence with or without pay when s/he has 

exhausted her/his twelve (12) workweek Family Care/Medical Leave entitlement in the leave year, 
or s/he is not otherwise eligible for Family Care/Medical Leave, or the employee has exhausted her 
four (4) month entitlement under Pregnancy Disability Leave and s/he;  

b.   is medically incapable of performing the essential assigned functions of her/his job due to a 

non-work related illness or injury; and  

c.   has furnished evidence of disability satisfactory to the University.  

3.   DURATION  

 

 

 

 

 

 
D.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.   When the use of accrued sick leave and a disability leave of absence without pay are combined, 

the University may grant a disability leave for a total period of verified disability not to exceed six (6) 
months.  

b.   An employee granted a disability leave who is also applying for University disability for non-work 

related disability purposes shall use all accrued sick leave in accordance with the University's 
disability plan prior to taking leave without pay.  

c.   In the event that the employee's accrued sick leave is greater than six (6) months, a disability leave 

of absence without pay in addition to the use of all accrued sick leave, shall not be granted.  

d.   If an extension to a disability leave of absence within the total six (6) month period is not granted, 

an employee will be medically separated in accordance with Article - Medical Separation of this 
Agreement.  

e.   An employee who is receiving long term disability payments from a retirement system to which the 
University contributes will be medically separated on the basis of medical condition in accordance 
with Article - Medical Separation of this Agreement.  

4.   RETURN TO WORK  

a.   The employee shall not be reinstated from a medically-related leave of absence until a medical 

release certification is provided to the University within the time limits specified by the department.  
A medical release certification shall include a statement by the employee's health care provider of 
the employee's ability to perform the essential functions of the position.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
F.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
E.   PERSONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY  
 

1.   A non-probationary career employee may be granted a Personal Leave of Absence without Pay at the 
sole non-grievable discretion of the University.  Such leave shall not exceed six (6) calendar months.  
Personal Leave without Pay shall not be considered a break in service and shall not determine 
eligibility for benefits except that the regulations of the retirement systems must be specifically checked 
to determine the effects of such leave without pay on retirement benefits.  

2.  

The University, at its sole non-grievable discretion, may approve extension of a personal leave of 
absence without pay.  Total leave time is normally not more than twelve (12) months.  

LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY  

1.  

JURY DUTY  

A full-time employee in a career position on any shift or work schedule shall be granted leave with pay for 
actual time spent on jury service and in related travel not to exceed the number of hours in the employee's 
normal work day and the employee's normal workweek.  A part-time employee in a career position shall be 
granted leave with pay for actual time spent on jury service and in related travel which occur during the 
employee's regularly scheduled hours of work.  

2.   VOTING  

An employee shall be granted leave with pay, up to a maximum of two (2) hours, for voting in a statewide 
primary or general election if the employee is scheduled to work eight (8) hours or more on that day and does 
not have time to vote outside of working hours.  

3.   BLOOD DONATIONS  

An employee may be granted leave with pay, up to a maximum of two (2) hours, for donating blood during 
regularly scheduled hours of work.  

4.   ADMINISTRATIVE OR LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  

a.   When an employee is attending administrative or legal proceedings as directed by the University or 

is subpoenaed by the University to appear as a witness in an administrative or legal proceeding, 
leave without loss of straight time pay will be granted for actual time spent in the proceedings and 
in related travel not to exceed the number of hours in the employee's normal work day and 
workweek.  

b.   An employee subpoenaed by the State or a political subdivision thereof when the State or political 

subdivision is prosecuting a person for an offense which the employee, by virtue of being on 
University premises during scheduled work hours, witnessed, shall be granted leave without loss of 
straight time pay for actual time spent in the proceedings and in related travel time not to exceed 
the employee's normal work day and workweek.  

c.   The granting of leave without loss of straight time pay status for other employment-related 

situations where an employee has been subpoenaed shall be at the sole non-grievable, 
non-arbitrable discretion of the University.  

5.   EMERGENCIES  

In the event of natural or man-made emergencies, an employee may be granted leave with straight 
time pay during regularly scheduled hours of work for the period of time authorized by the University.  
The granting of such leave and the period of time shall be at the sole, non-grievable discretion of the 
University.  

6.   UNIVERSITY FUNCTIONS  

At the sole, non-grievable discretion of the University and on a campus basis and within a campus 
basis, an employee may be granted leave during regularly scheduled hours of work to attend 
Commencement exercises, Charter Day exercises and other University meetings or functions as 
designated by the University.  Such leave, when granted, shall be without loss of straight-time pay.  

 
A.   GENERAL CONDITIONS  
 

MEDICAL SEPARATION 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1.   When the University determines that a non-probationary career employee is unable to satisfactorily 

perform the essential assigned functions of her/his position due to any disability or other medical 
condition, that employee may be medically separated.  Prior to medical separation, the University will 
determine what accommodation, if any, maybe reasonably provided.  Such accommodation, if any, 
shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Article _, Reasonable Accommodation.  An 
employee who is medically separated is eligible for special reemployment procedures as set forth in 
Section E., below.  

2.   Except as provided in Section A.3., below, a medical separation shall be based on:  

a.   University statement describing the essential functions the employee is not able to perform 

satisfactorily; and  

b.   any pertinent information, including medical information provided by the employee's licensed health 

practitioner and/or the University's physician, and/or work-related information provided by 
appropriate University officials.  

3.   A medical separation may also be based on the employee's receipt of long-term disability payments 

from a retirement system to which the University contributes, such as UCRS or PERS.  

4.   An employee who is on an approved leave of absence of 180 days or less shall not be medically 

separated provided:  

a. 

 the leave is related to a medical condition, and  

b.   the employee's medical health practitioner (who is licensed by the state in which she/he practices) 

has established a specific return to work date one-hundred eighty (180) days of the beginning of 
the leave of absence.  

 
B.   PROOF OF DISABILITY OR OTHER MEDICAL CONDITION  
 

Proof of the employee's disability is required and is subject to verification by the University.  When the 
University requests a second medical opinion as verification of disability, the University shall pay the costs of 
the medical examination(s) requested.  

 
C.   NOTICE OF INTENT TO MEDICALLY SEPARATE  
 

The University shall give the employee a written notice of intent to medically separate.  Such notice shall be 
provided either by delivery of the notice to the employee in person, or by placing the notice of intent in the 
U.S. mail, first class postage paid, in an envelope addressed to the employee at the employee's last known 
home address.  Proof of service shall accompany the notice of intent.  The notice shall:  

1.  

2.  

Inform the employee of the action intended, the reason for the action and the effective date of the 
action;  

Inform the employee of the right to respond and to whom to respond within ten (10) calendar days from 
the date of issuance of such notice of intent, in accordance with the instructions given by the University 
in the written notice provided to the employee.  A copy of the notice of intent shall be provided to CUE.  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
D.   EMPLOYEE NOTICE  
 

 
E.   RE-EMPLOYMENT  
 

1.  

After review of the employee's timely response, if any, the University shall notify the employee of any action 
to betaken.  An effective date of separation shall follow the employee's timely response or, if no response is 
provided, shall be at least ten (10) calendar days from the date of issuance of the notice of intention to 
separate, pursuant to Section C., above.  

For a period of one (1) year following the date of a medical separation, a medically separated former 
non-probationary career employee may be selected for a position without the requirement that the 
position be publicized.  However, if the former employee is receiving disability benefits from a 
retirement system to which the University contributes the period shall be three (3) years from the date 
benefits commenced.  In order to be eligible for rehire under this Article, the medically separated 
employee must provide a medical certification from a University-approved medical physician describing 
in detail the medically separated employee's ability to return to work.  

2.  

If a non-probationary career employee separated under this Article is re-employed within one hundred 
eighty (180) calendar days, a break in service does not occur.  If a non-probationary career employee 
is receiving disability payments from a retirement system to which the University contributes and is 
re-employed within three (3) years, a break in service does not occur.  

 
A.   TEMPORARY MILITARY LEAVE FOR ACTIVE-DUTY TRAINING  
 

MILITARY LEAVE 

1.  

Temporary military leave for active-duty training shall be granted to any employee who as a member of 
a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States (the federally recognized National 

Guard, the federally recognized Air National Guard, the Officer's Reserve Corps, the Regular Army 
Reserve, the Air Force Reserve, the Enlisted Reserve Corps, the Naval Reserve, the Marine Corps 
Reserve, the Coast Guard Reserve, and the Public Health Reserve when serving with the Armed 
Forces) is ordered to full-time active military duty for training for a period not to exceed 180 calendar 
days, including time spent traveling to and from such duty.  Such leave is not granted for inactive duty 
such as regular weekly or monthly meetings or drills required to maintain reserve status.  However, 
unpaid leave may be granted for such meetings and drills or the employee may elect to use vacation 
leave.  

2.   Eligibility For Pay  

An employee granted leave for military reserve training is entitled to receive regular University pay for 
up to 30 calendar days, but not to exceed the actual period of active duty for training, provided:  

a.  

The employee has at least 12 months of continuous University service immediately prior to 
granting of the leave (any prior full-time military service shall be included in calculating this 
University service requirement); and  

b.   Such payment, in addition to University payment for extended military leave and for military leave 

for physical examinations, does not exceed 30 calendar days' pay in any one fiscal year.  

3.  

The University May Require Verification Of An Employee's Military Orders.  

4.   Part-Time Employee  

An eligible part-time employee shall receive pay in proportion to the average percent of full-time worked 
during the three completed monthly pay periods immediately preceding the leave.  

5.  

Ineligible Employee  

An employee not eligible for military leave pay may have such absence charged to accrued vacation, 
accrued compensatory time off, or the military leave may be without pay.  

6.   Benefits  

a.   An employee on leave for military reserve training who is not on pay status shall receive length of 

service credit, provided that the employee returns to University service at the expiration of the 
leave in accordance with applicable State and Federal laws.  Such employee may receive 
retirement benefits and service credit only in accord with the provisions of the applicable 
retirement system; may continue health plan coverage at the employee's request and expense 
for a limited period of time as described in the University Group Insurance Regulations; and may 
receive vacation and sick leave accruals and holiday pay only in accordance with those articles 
of this Agreement.  

b.  

If on pay status, provided that the employee returns to University service at the expiration of the 
leave in accordance with applicable State and Federal Laws, the employee shall receive regular 
benefits.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B.   EXTENDED MILITARY LEAVE  
 

1.   Extended military leave shall be granted to an employee who enlists or is ordered into active duty in the 
United States Armed Forces or a reserve component or who is ordered into active Federal military duty 
as a member of the National Guard or Naval Militia.  Such leave shall be granted for active-duty service 
of any length or for active-duty training in excess of 180 days.  

2.   Period of Leave  

An employee shall be granted extended military leave for the initial period of enlistment, service, or tour 
of duty for a period not to exceed five years.  In addition to the initial period of the leave and any 
extensions thereof in accordance with Section B, leave shall be granted for a period up to six months 
from the date of release from duty.  

3.   Eligibility for Pay  

An employee granted extended military leave is entitled to receive regular University pay for the first 30 
calendar days of leave provided:  

a.  

The employee has at least 12 months of continuous University service immediately prior to the 
leave (any prior full-time military service shall be included in calculating this University service 
requirement);  

b.   Such payment, in addition to University payment for military reserve training leave and for military 
leave for physical examinations, does not exceed 30 calendar days' pay in any one fiscal year.  

4.  

The University may require verification of an employee's military orders.  

5.   Benefits  

An employee granted extended military leave shall at the time the leave commences receive a 
lump-sum payment for earned salary, accrued vacation, and accrued overtime or compensatory time.  
Upon written request, an employee may elect to retain accrued vacation on the records for a period not 
to exceed 180 days.  At the end of the 180-day period, vacation credits retained on the records shall be 
paid out at the pay rate in effect at the time of payment, taking into account any salary increases that 
may have occurred during the 180 day period.  

6.   Sick leave credit shall be retained on the records.  

7.   Retirement benefits and service credit shall be in accord with the provisions of the applicable retirement 

system.  

8.   An employee may continue health plan coverage at the employee's request and expense for a limited 

period of time as described in the University Group Insurance Regulations.  

9.   An employee shall receive length-of-service benefits related to employment that would have been 

granted had the employee not been absent, except that the employee shall not receive credit toward 
completion of a probationary period (see section B.9).  Vacation and sick leave accruals and holiday 
Pay shall be granted only in accordance with those articles of this Agreement.  

10.   Probationary Employee  

An employee who was serving a probationary period at the time extended military leave became 
effective shall be required to complete the probationary period upon reinstatement.  

a.  

b.  

If the probationary employee served in active military service for a period of thirty (30) days or 
less, he/she shall not be separated from employment by management action except for cause for 
six (6) months from the date of reinstatement.  

If the probationary employee served in active military service for a period in excess of one 
hundred eighty (180) days, he/she shall not be separated from employment by management 
except for cause for one (1) year from the date of reinstatement.  

11.  Reinstatement 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.  

Following release from active duty, an employee granted extended military leave shall have such 
right to return, and only such right, as may be required by state and federal law in effect at the 
time the employee applies for reinstatement.  

b.   Upon reinstatement, an employee shall receive salary range adjustments applicable to the 

employee's position during the military leave.  

 
C.   EMERGENCY NATIONAL GUARD LEAVE  
 

1.  

Leave shall be granted to an employee who as a member of the National Guard is called to active duty 
by proclamation of the Governor during a state of emergency.  An employee who as a member of the 
National Guard is called to active federal military duty at the request of the President of the United 
States is not eligible for emergency National Guard leave, but shall be granted extended military leave 
as set forth in section B.  

2.   Eligibility for Pay  

An employee granted military leave for emergency National Guard duty is entitled to receive regular 
University pay for a period not to exceed 30 calendar days in any one fiscal year.  An employee is 
eligible for pay regardless of the length of University service, and such pay is in addition to any 
University payment for military reserve training leave, extended military leave, and military leave for 
physical examinations.  

3.   Benefits  
 

An employee on military leave with pay for emergency National Guard duty shall receive all benefits 
related to employment which are granted when an employee is on pay status. If not on pay status, the 
employee shall receive length of service credit, provided that the employee returns to University service 
immediately after the emergency is over.  Such employee may receive retirement benefits and service 
credit only in accord with the provisions of the applicable retirement system; may continue health plan 
coverage at the employee's request and expense for a limited period of time as described in the 
University Group Insurance Regulations and may receive vacation and sick leave accruals and holiday 
Pay only in accordance with those articles of this Agreement.  

4.   Reinstatement  

a.  

Following release from active duty, an employee granted leave for emergency National Guard 
duty shall have such right to return, and only such right, as may be required by state and federal 
law in effect at the time the employee applies for reinstatement.  

b.   Upon reinstatement, an employee shall receive salary range adjustments applicable to the 

employee's position granted during military leave.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
D.   PHYSICAL EXAMINATION  
 

1.   Military leave with pay shall be granted to an employee in accordance with A.2.b. and B.3.b., 

regardless of length of service, when the employee is required to take a pre-induction or pre-enlistment 
physical examination to fulfill a commitment under a Selective Service or comparable law, or during a 
period of war or comparable national emergency.  The University may require verification of an 
employee's military orders to report for a physical examination.  

2.  

The University may grant leave without pay for further physical examinations required for military 
service or the employee may charge such time off to accrued sick leave, accrued vacation or accrued 
compensatory time off.  

E.   DEFENSE WORK  
 

Military leave without pay may be granted to an employee who is called or volunteers to serve in scientific 
research and development under the auspices of the federal government during a war or comparable period 
of national emergency.  An employee granted such leave shall be eligible for the benefits set forth in sections 
B.5-10 of this Article and shall have the right to return to University service within six (6) months following 
termination of such defense work or the cessation of the war or period of national emergency, whichever 
occurs first.  However, such an employee shall not be eligible for 30 calendar days' pay for military leave.  
 
 

MOVING EXPENSES 

 
A.  
 
  

 
B.  
 
  

 
C.  

 
D.  
 
 

 
A.  
 

 
B.  
 

 
A.  

LIMITATIONS  

Payment for moving expenses may be granted by the University when an employee moves from one 
University work location to another University work location at the University's request.  No expenses shall 
be paid to an employee if the University determines that the new work location is within reasonable 
commuting distance of the previous location.  

EXPENSES TO BE PAID  

Expenses approved in advance by the University and supported by invoices and receipts may be paid for 
costs incurred for packing, insurance, transportation, storage in transit (not to exceed thirty (30) calendar 
days), unpacking, and installation of the employee's household effects at a new location.  Actual travel 
expenses for the employee and the employee's immediate family may be paid by the University, not to 
exceed air coach transportation cost and/or the University allowance for individuals for the cost of meals en 
route for the employee and the employee's immediate family.  

Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations and rates relative to moving expenses at the 
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory shall be in accordance with Laboratory policy for other staff 
employees at the Laboratory.  

The terms of this Article are not subject to grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement 

GENERAL PROVISIONS  

MULTIPLE APPOINTMENTS 

Employees with multiple appointments will be covered by the provisions of this Agreement only for the time 
in which the employees are working in any appointment(s) which would place him or her in the unit.  

BENEFITS  

In the event an individual has multiple appointments, the employee shall be eligible to participate in the 
benefits provided in Article - University Benefits, according to the UCRS Regulations.  The total of 
appointment time shall not include calculations which have any component of per diem appointment time.  
 
 

NO STRIKES 

During the term of this Agreement or any written extension thereof, the University agrees that there shall be 
no lockouts by the University.  CUE, on behalf of its officers, agents, and members agrees that there shall 
be no strikes, stoppages or interruptions of work, or other concerted activities which interfere directly or 
indirectly with University operations during the life of this Agreement or any written extension thereof.  CUE, 
on behalf of its officers, agents, and members, agrees that it shall not in any way authorize, assist, 
encourage, participate in, sanction, ratify, condone, or lend support to any activities in violation of this 
Article.  

Any employee who violates this Article shall be subject to discipline up to and including termination of 
employment. 

CUE shall immediately take whatever affirmative action is necessary to prevent and bring about an end to 
any concerted activity in violation of this Article.  Such affirmative action shall include but not be limited to 
sending written notice to the home address of all employees engaged in prohibited activity informing them 
that the concerted activity is in violation of this Article, that engaging in such activity may lead to disciplinary 
action, and stating that employees engaged in prohibited activity must cease such activity and immediately 
return to work.  

 
D.   Nothing herein constitutes a waiver of the University's right to seek appropriate legal relief in the event of a 

violation of this Article.  

B.  

 
C.  

 
 

 

 

 
A.   GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

NONDISCRIMINATION 

1.   Within the limits imposed by law or University regulations, the University shall not discriminate against 

or harass any clerical employee on the basis of race, color, religion, marital status, national origin, 
ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, medical condition, HIV status, status as 
a covered veteran, or any other veteran who served on active duty during a war or in a campaign or 
expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized, age, citizenship, political affiliation and 
union activity.  For the purposes of this Article only, medical condition means any health impairment 
related to or associated with a diagnosis of cancer, or health impairments related to genetic 
characteristics.  

2.   Neither the University nor CUE shall discriminate in the application of the provisions of this Agreement 

based on Union or non-Union affiliation.  

3.  

If the Union appeals a grievance to arbitration which contains allegations of a violation of this article 
which are not made in conjunction with the provision of another article that is arbitrable, the Union's 
notice must include an Acknowledgment and Waiver Form signed by the affected clerical employee.  
The Acknowledgment and Waiver Form will reflect that the clerical employee has elected to pursue 
arbitration as the exclusive dispute resolution mechanism for such claim and that the clerical employee 
understands the procedural and substantive differences between arbitration and the other remedial 
forum or forums in which the dispute might have been resolved, including the differences in the scope 
of remedies available in arbitration as compared to other forums.  The timeline to appeal to Arbitration 
set forth in Article __, Arbitration, will be extended by 30 days for said grievances to enable the clerical 
employee to make an informed choice.  

 
 B.   SEXUAL HARASSMENT  
 
  
 
 

See Section __ in Article __ Grievance Procedure.  

OUT OF CLASSIFICATION ASSIGNMENT 

 
A.   An employee who is temporarily assigned with the approval of University management to perform the duties, 
on a full-time basis for a period of 20 consecutive working days or more, of a position in a higher classification 
and the employee performs substantially all of those duties of the higher classification shall be paid at the 
rate of the next step of his or her range or at the minimum rate of the higher classification, whichever is 
greater, for all such hours worked.  Such temporary assignment shall not result in the reclassification of the 
employee and shall terminate no later than the return to work/replacement of the incumbent of the higher 
position.  

 
B.   An employee who is temporarily assigned to perform the duties of a position in a lower classification shall 

continue to receive the employee's regular rate of pay.  

PARKING 

 
A.   GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

 

2.  

1.  

The University shall provide to Clerical unit employees parking and parking-related services at each 
campus or the Laboratory to the same extent and under the same conditions as normally provided for 
other University staff employees at the employee's location.  

It is understood and agreed that parking spaces designated for employees may from time to time be 
eliminated or reassigned due to construction, special events, and/or operational needs of the 
University.  

 
B.   MEET AND DISCUSS PARKING RATE CHANGES  
 

1.   At least forty-five (45) calendar days prior to a campus' or Laboratory's implementation of new or 

changed parking fees to be charged to employees of this unit, the University shall inform CUE of its 
intent to establish or change parking charges.  

2.   CUE shall have fifteen (15) calendar days from receipt of the University's notice to request that the 

University meet with CUE to discuss the changes.  

3.   Upon receipt of a timely written request from CUE, the campus/Laboratory shall schedule a meeting to 

discuss with CUE the new or changed parking charges.  Such meeting shall occur within fifteen (15) 
calendar days following CUE's request to meet.  Continuation of discussions beyond the 
implementation date specified in the notice to CUE shall not preclude the University from implementing 
the new charge on the date specified in the notice to CUE.  

 
C.   GRIEVANCES  
 

 

 

 
 

1.   CUE may grieve the implementation of the parking fee without forty-five (45) calendar days' notice, with 

the remedy being limited to the reimbursement to affected clerical unit employees of the difference 
between the new fee and the old fee for the number of days the notice provided was less than forty-five 
(45) calendar days.  Otherwise, the establishment and implementation of new or changed parking 
services or charges are at the sole, non-grievable, non-arbitrable discretion of the University.  

 
D.   LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY  
 

See Appendix __.  

PAST PRACTICE NOT COVERED BY AGREEMENT 

 
Practices and policies relating to wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment now existing, not raised in 
the bargaining process and not in conflict with this Agreement may remain in effect.  
 
The University agrees to meet and discuss, upon request, with CUE regarding the elimination or modification of 
these practices and policies.  Application, elimination, or modification of these practices and policies is not 
grievable. 
 
 

PAYROLL DEDUCTION 

 
A.   GENERAL CONDITIONS  
 

Upon receipt of a written individual authorization from CUE or an employee covered by this Agreement on a 
form (see Appendix-) mutually agreed upon by the parties, the University will deduct from the pay due such 
employee the monthly amount certified by the Union to be the dues required for the employee's membership 
in the Union.  Such individual authorization shall be effective only as to dues becoming due after the dates of 

 
B.   DUES AMOUNT CHANGE  
 

 
C.   NEW DEDUCTIONS  
 

CUE may change the certified dues amount once per calendar year, and all costs associated with 
accomplishing such changes in the dues amount (machine, programming, etc) shall be paid by CUE at the 
same rates that apply to other employee organizations described in the University Accounting Manual.  Any 
annual changes in the amount to be deducted for CUE dues shall be certified to the University, in writing, at 
least forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the effective date of the dues amount change.  The University shall 
provide CUE with estimated costs and an estimated time of completion and CUE shall pay the agreed-upon 
costs before the University makes the change.  

delivery of the authorization form and accomplishing of the appropriate programming/payroll information on 
the employee requesting deduction, however the time for appropriate programming shall in no case exceed 
45 calendar days from the date of delivery of the authorization form.  The amount deducted for payment of 
such dues shall be 0.5% of an individual employee's base salary up to maximums as established by CUE.  
Any change in the percent or maximum amount of dues shall be in accordance with B, below.  Such 
deduction, unless there are insufficient net earnings to cover said deduction, shall be made monthly or, where 
applicable, more frequently than monthly in accordance with University payroll procedures in existence at the 
time and location the deduction is made.  The amount of the deduction shall be certified to the University in 
writing, by CUE.  

New individual authorizations for a CUE payroll dues deduction must be presented to the designated office at 
the employee's campus/hospital/Laboratory location and the appropriate deduction will commence as soon 
thereafter as the authorization for such deduction is entered into the location's payroll system, in no case later 
than 45 calendar days.  

 
D.   CANCELLATION OF DEDUCTIONS  
 

Any employee may at any time cancel or terminate his/her authorization for CUE payroll deduction payment 
of member dues by presenting his or her written request for such termination and cancellation to CUE.  
Following CUE notification to the University of such cancellation such an employee's payroll deduction shall 
automatically revert from dues to fair share service fees (also called "agency fees"), without loss of any time, 
unless conscientious objector status has been previously authorized by CUE.  

 
E.   ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY FEE, EFFECTIVE JUNE 1, 2000  
 

1.   ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY - Upon written notification to the University of the amount of the fair 

share service fees by the President of CUE, University employees in the bargaining unit who are not 
members of CUE and not paying dues through payroll deduction, as a continued condition of 
employment, shall be required to pay a fair share service fee.  The amount of the fair share service fee 
shall not exceed the monthly dues that are payable by members of CUE.  The amount of the fee shall 
be deducted by the University from the wages or salary of the employee and paid to CUE.  

2.   ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY FEE CHANGE - CUE may change the certified fair share service fee 

amount once during the calendar year, or as may be required by law, and all costs associated with 
accomplishing such changes in fair share service fee amounts (machine, programming, etc.) shall be 
paid by CUE.  Any changes in the amount to be deducted for the fair share service fee shall be certified 
to the University, in writing by the President of CUE at least 45 calendar days prior to the proposed 
effective date of the fee change.  Estimated costs and time of completion shall be provided to CUE 
within 30 days of CUE's written request.  Following agreement on the cost and time, CUE shall pay the 
cost and the University shall complete the changes.  

3.  

FEES FOR PROVIDING PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS - Each campus, hospital, or Laboratory for each 
check remitted to CUE shall charge CUE and deduct from the fair share service fee total being remitted 
$0.07 per employee for whom fee deductions are being made and $10.00 for each check remitted.  
These costs shall continue to be charged to CUE for check remittance unless the parties agree 
otherwise.  If electronic transfer is accomplished and no check is provided, the cost to initiate the 

 

 

process and cost per transfer shall be paid by CUE according to the University Accounting Manual with 
respect to employee organizations.  

4.   EXEMPTION FROM ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY FEE - Any employee in this unit who is a member 

or, as long as CUE is responsible for administering conscientious objector status, an observant of a 
bona fide religion, body, or sect that has historically held conscientious objections to joining or 
financially supporting public employee organizations, shall not be required to join or financially support 
CUE as a condition of employment.  CUE shall be responsible for implementing conscientious objector 
status and providing notice to the University.  An employee to which this provision is applicable shall be 
required to pay sums equal to the amount of the fair share service fee to a non-religious, non-labor 
charitable fund exempt from taxation under Internal Revenue Service code chosen by the employee 
from a list of at least three of these funds designated by the University and CUE.  Proof of these 
payments shall be made on a monthly basis to the University, according to local procedures, as a 
condition of continued exemption from the requirement of financial support of CUE.  

INFORMATION TO ACCOMPANY REMITTANCE  

Each campus/hospital/Laboratory shall remit at least monthly to CUE in the form of a check to an address 
designated by CUE an amount representing the authorized dues deductions, fair share service fees and 
other designated deductions.  Accompanying the check shall be a standard deduction report which shall 
contain by campus/hospital/Laboratory, an alphabetical listing of the CUE members and fee payers for whom 
payroll deductions were made.  The report shall include the employee identification number, employee name, 
amount withheld and, by January 2001, the retirement gross basis for the deduction.  The report shall be 
provided electronically or on paper if not available electronically.  Any costs associated with CUE requested 
changes in the deduction report referenced above shall be fully paid by CUE.  

 
G.   CORRECTION OF ERRORS  
 

If the University fails to make authorized deductions of union dues, fair share service fees or other authorized 
deductions or any part thereof, or fails to remit to CUE such authorized deductions or any portion thereof, or 
erroneously withholds deductions or any part thereof, the University shall correct the errors.  The University 
shall refund to CUE any deductions it has erroneously failed to remit.  From the time CUE notifies the 
University in writing of any such errors, or if the University becomes aware of such errors, the University shall 
have 45 days to make the corrections.  If after 45 days the University does not make the agreed-upon 
corrections and CUE incurs direct costs, the University will reimburse CUE for reasonable, documented costs 
incurred to make corrections for only University errors.  If there is not agreement on the correction or the 
costs, CUE may grieve the matter only as a union grievance.  

It is expressly understood and agreed that CUE shall refund to the employee any deductions erroneously 
withheld from the employee's wages by the University and paid to CUE.  

 

 
F.  
 

 

 
I.  
 

 
 

 
H.   OTHER DESIGNATED FUNDS  
 

Payroll deduction shall be made for CUE-sponsored insurance programs pursuant to the provisions of the 
University's Accounting Manual requirements as set forth in "Special regulations for Non-University Insured 
Benefit Program".  

INDEMNIFICATION  

It is specifically agreed that the University assumes no obligations or liability, financial or otherwise, pursuant 
to payroll deduction other than those specified in this article and in applicable law.  

 
A.   Evaluation  
 

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 

1.   Performance Evaluation is a constructive process to acknowledge the performance of an employee.  

An employee's evaluation shall be sufficiently specific to inform and guide the employee in the 
performance of her/his duties.  Performance standards are guidelines for performing the duties of a 
specific job.  Performance standards and guidelines for performing the duties of a specific job shall be 
reasonable.  The evaluation of each employee shall be based on the individual employee's 
performance.  

2.   Except in the case of minor and non-substantive changes, the University will, 60 calendar days prior to 

implementing anew performance evaluation form or written performance standard, provide a copy of 
the proposed form or written standard to CUE.  If CUE provides a written request to meet and discuss 
within 30 days of the notice date, the University shall meet and discuss with CUE regarding the 
change.  In addition, if CUE requests in writing to meet about any alleged significant change in 
performance standards or performance evaluation form.  The University shall meet and discuss within 
30 days of CUE's request regarding the change, if any.  

3.   Performance evaluation is not in and of itself a disciplinary procedure.  

4. 

5.  

Clerical Unit employees who receive an overall "needs improvement" rating shall have been informed 
of any deficiencies, including information about how to correct said deficiencies prior to receiving such 
overall evaluation.  

The performance of each non-probationary career employee shall be evaluated at least annually, in 
accordance with a process established by the University.  In the event anon-probationary career 
employee does not receive the written evaluation, the employee may take the following action:  

a)   Within 15 calendar days of the date the written evaluation was due but not received, the 

employee shall make a written request for the evaluation to the employee's immediate 
supervisor.  When an employee makes such a request, an evaluation shall be completed within 
15 calendar days of the request, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.  

b)  

In the event a non-probationary career employee does not receive a written evaluation and fails 
to request that an evaluation be completed within the required period of time, the employee's 
overall evaluation shall be "meets expectations."  

 
B.   EMPLOYEE RESPONSE TO AN EVALUATION  

 

After receiving a University performance evaluation, an employee may write comments pertaining to her/his 
evaluation or add relevant materials, which may supplement or enhance the evaluation.  When the University 
receives such written comments or materials from the employee, they shall be attached to the performance 
evaluation and placed in the employee's personnel file in which performance evaluations are maintained.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
C.   GRIEVABILITY  
 

1.   A non-probationary career employee who receives a written performance evaluation with an overall 
rating of less than satisfactory may file a grievance pursuant to the provisions of Article - Grievance 
Procedure of this Agreement.  Such grievance concerning the content of a performance evaluation 
rating the employee as less than satisfactory shall be eligible to be processed through Steps 1and 2 of 
the Grievance Procedure, but shall not be eligible for review at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.  
The remedy for such a grievance shall be limited to revision of the section(s) being grieved and revision 
of the rating(s) in question.  

2.   Disputes arising regarding the performance evaluation of employees, including but not limited to the 
form, timing, procedure, impact and effects, shall not be subject to Article-, Grievance Procedure or 
Article - Arbitration Procedure of this Agreement, with the exception of Section C.1, above.  

 
A.  GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

1.  

Location Of Personnel Files  

PERSONNEL FILES 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personnel files may be located in an employee's employing department and/or the campus/medical 
center/laboratory Human Resources Department.  

2.  

Information In The Files  

a.   An employee's personnel file(s) contain information pertaining, but not limited, to: employment, 
such as the application for employment, tests, and letters or statements of reference; pay and 
benefits; training; conduct; education, honors and awards; duties and job classification; 
performance; discipline, release, and dismissal actions; attendance; and other relevant or 
necessary information specified by the University.  

b.   Copies of letters of disciplinary action, along with copies of proofs of service that accompany the 
letters, upon being provided to an employee, shall be placed in the employee's personnel file(s).  
The employee's written comments, if any, regarding such letters shall be placed in her/his 
personnel file(s).  Such comments shall not require the University to change or alter the letters or 
the actions indicated by the letters.  

c.  

Letters of disciplinary action shall, upon written request of the employee, be removed from the 
employee's personnel file(s) if there have been no other disciplinary actions of the same or of a 
similar kind for a period not to exceed two years.  Materials which would be removed upon an 
employee's request which are more than two (2) years old will not be used or relied upon to take 
or support disciplinary action.  If there have been no other disciplinary actions of the same or 
similar kind for a two year period, materials which would be removed upon an employee's 
request which are more than two years old will not be used or relied upon to take or support 
disciplinary action.  The employee shall receive the written request and the documents back.  

d.   Upon the employee's written request, counseling memoranda and/or written records of 

discussions will be removed from the employee's personnel file if there have been no other such 
memoranda relating to, or disciplinary action on, the same or similar issue(s) for a two-year 
period not to exceed two years.  Counseling memoranda and/or written records of discussion, in 
and of themselves, are not discipline nor are they grievable/arbitrable.  

 
B.   EMPLOYEE AND/OR REPRESENTATIVE REVIEW OF PERSONNEL FILE(S)  
 

An employee shall upon advanced notice have the opportunity to review her/his personnel file(s), as 
described in Section A., above, within a reasonable time in the presence of a representative of the University.  

1.   An individual of the employee's choice may accompany the employee when the employee is reviewing 

her/his personnel file(s).  

2.   Alternatively, an individual employee may authorize a designated representative to review the 

employee's personnel file(s) on the employee's behalf.  Such written authorization shall be valid for a 
period of thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the signature of the authorization or within a written 
time limit specified by the employee.  

3.   When the employee has chosen a member of the CX bargaining unit to assist in the review of the 

file(s), that person's release time shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.  

4.   An employee shall be granted a reasonable amount of time in without-loss-of-straight-time pay status 

to review his/her personnel file(s) within the operational needs of the department.  

Records protected by recognized legal privilege and records excepted from disclosure by law may be 
withheld from the employee and/or the employee's representative.  

C.   PROTECTED INFORMATION  
 

 
D.   GRIEVANCE-RELATED FILES  
 

 
E.   DUPLICATION COSTS  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Records involving the processing of an employee's grievance, such as the grievance form, step 
appeals/responses, and settlement documents, will be kept in a file separate from the employees' personnel 
file.  It is not the intent of this section to exclude from the employee's personnel file final disciplinary action 
documents, including those that result from a settlement agreement.  

Employees shall receive, without cost, a first copy of documents, or extracts thereof, that are located in 
her/his personnel file.  However, employees in the CX bargaining unit may be charged the same fees as are 
customarily charged other staff employees for additional copies of documents in the employee's personnel 
file.  

POSITIONS 

Career positions are positions established for a fixed or variable percentage of time at 50% or more of 
full-time and which are expected to continue for one year or longer.  

 
A.   CAREER POSITIONS  
 

 
B.   CASUAL POSITIONS  
 

1.   Casual positions are positions established at any percentage of time, fixed or variable, for less than 
one year, or are positions established at a fixed or variable percentage of time at less than 50% of 
full-time regardless of the duration of the position.  

2.   A career position is a position originally designated as a casual position but held by the same 

incumbent for 13consecutive months for 50% or more, full-time.  Such career designations shall be 
effective the first of the month following the 13 consecutive months.  

3.   Employees in casual positions may be released or have their time reduced at the sole discretion of the 

University and without recourse to Article - - Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.  An employee 
who is appointed to a casual position is automatically released as of the last day of the appointment 
unless there is an earlier separation or formal extension of the appointment.  

 
C.   PARTIAL-YEAR POSITIONS  
 

 
D.   PER DIEM POSITIONS  
 

Partial-year positions are career positions established with regularly scheduled periods during which the 
incumbents remain employees but are not at work.  These scheduled periods during which employees are 
not at work are designated as furloughs and are without pay.  Such scheduled periods need not be 
consecutive in time.  Furloughs are not to exceed a total of three months in each calendar year.  

1.   Per diem positions are positions at any percentage of time regardless of the duration of the position.  

These positions are established to complement career and casual positions when necessary to 
maintain appropriate staffing of the University teaching hospitals and other health care facilities.  

2.   Employees who are in per diem titles are covered by per diem salary rates (by agreement rates), the 

overtime provisions and the Work Rules Article of this Agreement.  

3.   Employees in per diem positions may be disciplined, terminated, released or have their time reduced at 

the sole discretion of the University and without recourse to Article- Grievance Procedure of this 
Agreement.  

4.   Use of Article - Grievance Procedure of this Agreement by employees in the per diem positions is 
limited exclusively to alleged violations of the Wages, Overtime and Work Rules provisions of this 
Agreement.  

LAWRENCE BERKELEY LABORATORY  

The definitions of temporary and indeterminate positions which currently are in effect at the Laboratory shall 
remain in effect.  

SERVICE CREDIT AND BENEFITS  

Non-industrial disability and short-term disability insurance are not provided when employees are on furlough.  
Time on furlough is not qualifying time for vacation leave, sick leave, holiday pay, or service computation for 
seniority or retirement.  

For health benefits, see Article _ - University Benefits, Section M.1.  

PROBATIONARY PERIOD 

 
A.   Employees shall serve a probationary period of six (6) calendar months, at 50% time or more, without a break 

in service.  Time on leave, with or without pay, is not qualifying service for completion of the probationary 
period.  Employees who are rehired following a break in service shall serve a new probationary period, 
whether or not they previously completed a probationary period.  Prior to the completion of the probationary 
period, an employee may be released at the discretion of the University, and without recourse to the 
Grievance or Arbitration Procedure(s) of this Agreement.  

 
B.   A casual employee appointed, transferred or promoted to a career position within the unit shall serve, at the 
discretion of the University, a probationary period commencing with placement in the career position.  Casual 
employees appointed to career positions who have served at least six consecutive months at 50% time or 
more in the same position as their career position shall have three months credited toward the completion of 
their probationary period.  

 
C.   At the discretion of the University, an employee's probationary period may be extended.  Such an extension 

shall be for a specific period of time not to exceed three months.  

 
D.   A probationary employee shall be evaluated in writing at least once during a full probationary period.  
 
E.   Public Safety Dispatchers shall serve a 12-month probationary period beginning on the first date of hire into 

the series in accordance with POST regulations. 

 
G.  REASSIGNMENT  
 

The reassignment of an employee in a full-time career position to a partial-year position or to a part-time 
position at a fixed or variable percentage of time shall be considered a reduction in time and must be carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of Article - Layoff and Reduction in Time.  

 
H.  Neither this Article nor any other Articles or provisions of this Agreement shall be construed as a guarantee of 

or limitation on the number of hours per work day or workweek.  

 

 
E. 
 

 
F. 
 

 

 
 

 
 

REHABILITATION/REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION 

 
A.   When appropriate, the University will provide special assistance to employees covered by this Agreement 
who become disabled when such disabilities substantially limit their work activities.  This assistance shall 
include attempts to achieve reasonable accommodation, and for non-probationary career employees, special 
selection procedures upon request.  All employees shall be provided information about rehabilitation services.  

 
B.   After receipt of medical documentation from the employee, the University will determine what assistance, if 

any, will be offered to the employee.  Such documentation provided by the employee shall be subject to 
confirmation by a University-appointed physician.  The University shall pay the cost of a University-appointed 
physician.  

 
C.   A non-probationary career employee who becomes disabled and who has received vocational rehabilitation 

services may be selected for a position without the requirement that the position be publicized when 
approved by the University.  

 
D.   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION  
 

1.  

The University shall analyze the position held at the onset of an employee's illness or injury, if such a 
position is still available.  Such analysis shall identify the essential functions of the position and 
conditions of the work environment to aid in determining if reasonable accommodations can be made 
to the employee's disability.  If necessary, a similar accommodation analysis shall be conducted of 
other open unit positions for which the employee may apply and is otherwise qualified.  

The employee is responsible for providing medical documentation to assist in understanding the nature 
of any required accommodation to a disability.  Such documentation shall relate specifically to the job 
analysis information provided by the University and shall, at the University's option, be subject to 
confirmation by a University-appointed physician.  The University shall pay the cost of a 
University-appointed physician.  

 

2.  

 
E.   TRIAL EMPLOYMENT  
 
 

When recommended by a vocational rehabilitation counselor and approved by the appropriate University 
official, a qualified former non-probationary career disabled employee may be offered temporary trial 
employment to evaluate the employee's interests and abilities.  The length of this trial employment, which 
shall not exceed one year, shall be determined by the counselor in consultation with the employing 
Department/Division Head.  Positions used for trial employment shall not be designated as career, except 
that an employee shall maintain benefits to the extent permitted by benefit plan rules.  

 
 

 

 

 

 
A.   RESIGNATION  
 

RESIGNATION/JOB ABANDONMENT 

1.   Employees who voluntarily separate from employment with the University, other than retirement, are 

considered to have resigned their employment with the University.  

2.   Upon the employee's submission of a written notice of resignation there shall be no withdrawal or 

rescinding of the resignation except by the written mutual agreement of the University and the 
employee.  

3.  

In the event an employee provides an oral notice of resignation, s/he may rescind such notice within 
two scheduled work days following the oral notice.  If such oral notice is not rescinded within the two (2) 
work-day limit, there shall be no withdrawal or rescission of her/his resignation except by the written 
mutual agreement of the University and the employee.  

4.   With the exception of retirement, any and all compensation owed to an employee who resigns shall be 

provided to her/him on the date of the next regular payroll check-writing following receipt of the 

appropriate payroll-related papers in the payroll department, but no later than forty-five (45) calendar 
days following the employee's resignation.  The paperwork initiating the resigned employee's final 
paycheck shall be initiated as soon as practicable following her/his resignation.  Retirement 
compensation shall be provided pursuant to retirement plan regulations.  

JOB ABANDONMENT  

Failure to report to work as scheduled for five (5) consecutive work days may be treated by the University as 
an employee's job abandonment resulting in her/his resignation:  

1.  

2.  

3.  

In the case of job abandonment, the University shall provide the employee with written notification of its 
intent to separate her/him.  This notification shall include the reasons for the separation, the employee's 
right to respond to the University within fourteen (14) calendar days, and a Proof of Service.  The 
notification shall be sent to the employee's last known mailing address.  

The employee shall have fourteen (14) calendar days from the mailing of such notice to respond to the 
University prior to her/his separation.  The response may, at the option of the employee, be in writing or 
may be a meeting with a designated University official.  The official must have the authority to 
effectively recommend reinstatement of the employee.  

Following the employee's timely response, or if no response was provided within fourteen (14) calendar 
days, the decision of the designated University official is not subject to the grievance and/or arbitration 
provisions of this Agreement.  

RESPECTFUL, FAIR TREATMENT 

 
A.   CUE and the University recognize that respectful, fair treatment of others promotes a work environment and 
organizational culture that supports and values all members of the University community.  Therefore, officers 
of the University shall treat members of the bargaining unit with dignity and respect in all interactions.  In 
addition, members of the bargaining unit shall treat officers of the University with dignity and respect in all 
interactions.  

 
B.   Nothing in this Article shall be construed to change established University policies and practices about 

political expression and/or freedom of speech; nor shall anything in this Article impede normal expression in 
labor-management communications.  A Universitywide Labor/Management meeting shall develop an 
understanding of application of the above stated limitations for purposes of this Article, in addition to 
developing the meaning of "dignity and respect" for purposes of this Article.  

 
C.   Any complaints arising from this Article shall be grievable only through step two of the grievance process.  
 
 

 
B.  
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
A.  

 
 

 

SEVERABILITY 

In the event that any provision of this Agreement is declared invalid or void by statute or judicial decision, 
such action shall not invalidate the entire Agreement.  It is the express intention of the parties that all other 
provisions not declared invalid or void shall remain in full force and effect.  In the event that any provision of 
this Agreement is declared invalid or void, the parties agree to meet promptly upon request of the other party 
in an attempt to reach an agreement on a substitute provision.  

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL 

 
A.   Eligible employees assigned to an evening or night shift shall be paid a shift differential for all hours including 
overtime which are worked.  Classes eligible for a shift differential and shift differential rates by location are 
listed in Appendix A.  Work which is scheduled during the evening or night hours on the basis of convenience 
to the employee shall not be considered an assigned evening or night shift for the purpose of this provision.  

B.   Shift differential shall be paid for all hours of a shift when four hours or more of a shift are worked after 

5:00p.m. and before 8:00 a.m.  

 
C.   An employee in an eligible class regularly assigned to a day shift of eight hours or longer shall be paid a shift 
differential for overtime hours when the overtime hours are worked after 5:00 p.m. and before 8:00 a.m., the 
total overtime hours in one 24-hour day are equal to at least one-half of the number of regular hours in the 
employee's day shift, and the overtime is not compensated at a premium rate.  

 
D.   When an employee who usually works on an evening or night shift is temporarily assigned to a day shift for a 
period of four working days or less, the employee shall continue to receive any shift differential.  A temporary 
change of four working days or less in shift assignment initiated by the employee is not covered by this 
provision.  

 
E.   The shift differential shall be included in payments for all types of paid leave, provided that the employee 

would have been expected to work that shift or shifts if the employee were not on paid leave.  

 
F.   Prior to assigning a shift differential rate to a classification that does not have an established rate, the 

University and CUE must negotiate the shift differential rate to be assigned to that classification.  

 
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL -- LAWRENCE BERKELEY LABORATORY  
 
Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations, covered hours and rates relative to Shift Differential at 
the Laboratory shall remain in effect for employees at the Laboratory and shall supersede the provisions of this 
Article in A. through E. above.  Shift differential rates for employees at the Laboratory are listed in Appendix B.  
 
Addendum:  
 
The University will increase the minimum shift differential to 37 cents per hour, effective October 1, 1999.  
 
 

PER DIEM POSITIONS 

 
Pay rates for Per Diem titles will be based on step 1.0 of the corresponding career clerical title, plus an addition of 
10%.  No per diem employee will have their rate reduced as a result of this adjustment.  
 
 

 
A.   ACCUMULATION OF SICK LEAVE CREDIT  
 

SICK LEAVE 

1.  

If a campus implements the Factor Accrual System, an eligible employee shall earn sick leave credit at 
the rate of 0.046154 hours per hour on pay status, including paid holiday hours but excluding all paid 
overtime hours.  

2.  

If a campus uses the Table Accrual System, an eligible employee shall earn sick leave credit at the rate 
of eight hours per month for full-time employment.  Sick leave credit is earned proportionately, as set 
forth in the Sick Leave Credit Table below, for hours on pay status over one-half of the full-time working 
hours of the month but less than full-time.  

3.   Until a campus provides notice to CUE of a proposed change to either the Table Accrual System or the 

Factor Accrual System, current accrual practices will remain in place. 

 

 

 

SICK LEAVE CREDIT TABLE  

 
Percent of      
Time on Pay   
Status 

 
Hours of Sick 
Leave Earned 

 
NUMBER OF HOURS ON PAY  STATUS 
 
160-Hr.* 
Month 
 
 
0 
 0 - 79 
 
 
4 
80 - 89 
 
 
5 
90 - 109 
 
 
6 
110 - 129 
 
 
7 
130 - 149 
 
 
150 - 160 
8 
* Hours on pay status, including paid holiday hours, but excluding all paid overtime hours.  

 
184-Hr.* 
Month 
 
0 - 91 
 
92 - 103 
 
104 - 126 
 
127 - 149 
 
150 - 172 
 
173 - 184 

 
168-Hr.* 
Month 
 
0 - 83 
 
84 - 94 
 
95 - 115 
 
116 - 136 
 
137 - 157 
 
158 - 168 

 
176-Hr.* 
Month 
 
0 - 87 
 
88 - 98 
 
99 - 120 
 
121 - 142 
 
143 - 164 
 
165 - 176 

 
0 - 49 
 
50 - 56 
 
57 - 68 
 
69 - 80 
 
81 - 93 
 
94 - 100 

4.   An employee must be on pay status for at least one-half of the working hours of a month or 

quadri-weekly cycle to earn sick leave credit for that month or quadri-weekly cycle.  Time on pay status 
in excess of a full-time work schedule does not earn sick leave credit.  Sick leave is earned during 
leave with pay.  For the purposes of this Agreement, a quadri-weekly cycle is defined as two bi-weekly 
pay periods designated by the University to be considered as one unit for the purpose of leave accrual.  

5.  

For employees on either system, earned sick leave for each month or quadri-weekly cycle is credited 
on the first day of the following month or quadri-weekly cycle, except that proportionate sick leave 
credit for an eligible employee who is separating from employment shall be credited at the completion 
of the last day on pay status.  

6. 

 The number of sick leave hours which may be accumulated is unlimited.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B.   ELIGIBILITY AND USE OF ACCUMULATED SICK LEAVE  
 

1.   General Provisions  

a.   Requests for the use of sick leave shall be made in accordance with campus or departmental 

procedures.  

b.   Sick leave is to be used for medical appointments with advance approval, personal illness or 
personal disability; and for the death or serious illness of others as provided in 'B.3. and'B.4., 
below. In the case of medical appointments, a request for sick leave shall not be unreasonably 
denied.  

c.   Sick leave shall not be used prior to the time it is credited.  Sick leave shall not be used in excess 
of the employee's normally scheduled hours or work for the day or days for which the sick leave 
is claimed.  Sick leave shall not be used beyond a predetermined date of separation, including 
retirement or layoff, or beyond a predetermined date beginning a leave of absence without pay.  

2.   Pregnancy  

A pregnant employee on approved leave without pay on the date certified by her doctor as the date on 
which she is no longer able to work or the date of delivery, whichever is earlier, can use sick leave 
beginning with that day and continuing through the period that she is physically unable to perform the 
normal duties of her job.  A pregnant employee may also be eligible for Pregnancy Disability Leave as 
provided in Article 14 - Leaves of Absence,'D.  

3.   Care of Others  

Up to 30 days of accumulated sick leave per year may be used when the employee is required to be in 
attendance or to provide care of either:  

a.  

 

b.  

The serious illness of the employee's parent, spouse, child(ren), brother, sister, grandparent, 
grandchildren, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter- in-law, or step-relatives; or any 
other person for whom the employee has a personal obligation who is residing in the employee's 
household; or  

The employee's spouse, parent(s) or child(ren), suffering from a "serious health condition" as 
defined in Article 14 - Leaves of Absence, ' C.l.e.  

c.   Sick leave granted under this section may be used to offset unpaid Family Care and Medical 

Leave granted pursuant to Article l4 - Leaves of Absence.  

4.   Bereavement  

Sick leave for bereavement purposes may be used as follows:  

a.   Up to five days of accumulated sick leave per occurrence maybe used when attendance is 

required due to the death of the employee's parent, spouse, children, brother, sister, 
grandparent, grandchildren, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, 
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or step-relatives; or any other person for whom the employee has a 
personal obligation who is residing in the employee's household.  

b.  

In the event an employee has a personal obligation for a person other than someone in 'B.4.a. 
above, the employee shall be permitted to use up to five days of accrued sick leave per calendar 
year for funeral attendance/bereavement.  

5.  

Illness While on Vacation  

If, while on vacation, an employee becomes ill and is under the care of a physician and submits a 
physician's statement, the employee may use accumulated sick leave for that personal illness.  Sick 
leave may not be used for illness of a family member during the employees' vacation.  

 
C.   SICK LEAVE PAY  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sick leave is paid at the employee's straight-time rate of pay including any shift differential, provided that the 
employee would have been expected to work that shift or shifts if not on sick leave.  

 
D.   SICK LEAVE NOTIFICATION AND VERIFICATION  
 

1.   No sick leave pay shall be payable to an employee unless the employee's immediate supervisor or 

designee is notified of the illness/disability and the probable duration thereof as soon as possible, but in 
no event later than the beginning of the employee's work day except when the University determines 
that the employee's failure to notify is due to extreme circumstances beyond the control of the 
employee.  Subsequent to an employee's notice of illness/disability, no time for which the employee 
has requested and/or received sick leave authorization may be charged to accumulated/anticipated 
compensatory time, leave with pay, vacation, or holiday time, except as provided in Article 14 - Leaves 
of Absence.  

2.   Any employee who anticipates a series of three or more medical appointments which will require a 

repeated use of sick leave, or who knows in advance the date and/or time of scheduled appointments, 
shall inform his or her immediate supervisor of the anticipated or known schedule of treatment.  

3.  

The University may require reasonable documentation of an employee's sick leave absence when an 
absence exceeds three consecutive scheduled days of work, or for shorter periods when: 

a.  

it appears to be justified and,  

b.  

notice has been provided to the employee prior to his or her return to work, that documentation 
will be required, or  

c.  

the employee has been given advance written notice that documentation will be required.  

4.   Employees who have unscheduled absences due to illness on a scheduled work day preceding or 

following a holiday may be required to bring a medical verification of illness to the employee's 
supervisor on the employee's return to work in order for the absence to be authorized.  

5.   When medical documentation is required by the University, it shall be from a health practitioner 

licensed by the state in which he or she practices to diagnose and certify illness or disability or from an 
authorized representative of a recognized treatment program.  

6.  

The University may have an employee claiming disability examined by a physician or physicians of its 
choosing, in accordance with Article 14 - Leaves of Absence.  The University shall pay the reasonable 
costs of any such medical examination and, when practical, shall send the employee to a physician of 
its choosing on the employee's work time.  

7.   When the University has determined that an employee's repeated use of sick leave is abusive, and has 
given the employee prior written notice that accrued sick leave use may be denied on future instances 
of illness, such employee may be denied the ability to use his or her accrued sick leave when absent 
due to illness.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
E.   TRANSFER AND REINSTATEMENT OF SICK LEAVE  
 

1.  

Transfer/Promotion/Demotion to positions covered by this Agreement  

a.   An employee transferred, promoted, or demoted without a break in service to a position that does 

accumulate sick leave shall have any accumulated sick leave transferred.  

b.   An employee transferred, promoted, or demoted to a position that does not accumulate sick 

leave shall have his or her accumulated sick leave held in abeyance.  If the employee 
subsequently moves without a break in service to a position which does accumulate sick leave, 
the previously accumulated sick leave shall be restored.  

c.   An employee who has been laid off and is recalled or preferentially rehired within the employee's 

period of recall or preferential rehire eligibility shall have all sick leave accumulated from prior 
service reinstated.  

2.   Reemployment in positions covered by this Agreement  
 

a.   An employee reemployed from University service or State of California service into the 

bargaining unit after a break in service of less than 15 calendar days shall have all sick leave 
accumulated from prior service reinstated if the new position is one which accumulates sick 
leave.  

b.   An employee reemployed in this bargaining unit after a break in service of more than 15 calendar 

days but less than six months shall have sick leave accumulated from prior service up to a 
maximum of 80 hours reinstated.  For purposes of this 'E.2. only,"sick leave accumulated from 
prior service" includes sick leave accumulated in State of California service.  

3.  

Transfer/Promotion/Demotion to positions not covered by this Agreement  

a.   An employee who is transferred, promoted, or demoted into a position not covered by this 

Agreement shall have the accumulation, use, and transfer of sick leave governed by the policies 
and/or contract covering employees in that unit or personnel program.  

 

b.  

This article shall apply to employees with split multiple appointments in accordance with the 
provisions of Article 19 -Multiple Appointments.  

 
F.   CONVERSION OF SICK LEAVE ON RETIREMENT  
 

Upon retirement, members of the University of California Retirement System shall have their accumulated 
sick leave converted to retirement service credit at the rate authorized by the University of California 
Retirement System for each day of unused accumulated sick leave.  

 
Any Clerical and Allied Services Unit employee may participate in a campus/hospital/laboratory Catastrophic 
Illness/Injury Leave program in accordance with the provisions of that location's program and Article __ 
Compassionate/Catastrophic Leave.  

 
G.   CATASTROPHIC LEAVE  

 
H.   CURTAILMENT PERIOD  
 

Employees who do not wish to use vacation or compensatory time off may elect to take a leave without pay 
during a closure or curtailment.  If an employee is in leave-without-pay-status due to a location closure which 
is 3 consecutive days or less in duration, such employee shall not lose hourly sick leave accrual.  

 
 

 
 

SUBCONTRACTING 

 
A.   The University retains the right to subcontract all or any portion of operations.  When the University decides 

to subcontract, and such subcontract will result in the layoff of employees in the bargaining unit, the 
University will provide CUE with a copy of the Request for Proposals (RFP) as soon as feasible after it is 
issued.  In the event no RFP is issued and the subcontract will result in bargaining unit employee layoffs, the 
University will give at least sixty (60) calendar days notice prior to the commencement of work by the 
contractor.  

 
B.   Prior to the commencement of the work that has been subcontracted and following receipt of a timely request 

from CUE, the University shall meet with CUE to discuss the effects of subcontracting upon bargaining unit 
employees who may be laid off.  Failure to conclude such discussions, if any, prior to the date on which the 
subcontracted work begins, shall not preclude the University from implementing the subcontracting on the 
date agreed upon by the University and the subcontractor or the layoff of employees pursuant to Article _, 
Layoff and Reduction in Time.  

 
C.   When subcontracting results in layoff and the laid off employee is not offered a position by the subcontractor 
or another University department or division within sixty (60) days of his/her last day of employment with the 
University, the University shall meet and discuss with CUE campus transition assistance programs, if any.  

 
A.   GENERAL CONDITIONS  
 

TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 

1.   Employees may participate in career-related or position-related development programs subject to 

approval by the University.  Unless the University determines the proposed training/development is not 
position or career related, or denies release time based on operational considerations, employees shall 
be granted flexible or alternate work scheduling, leave without pay, leave at full or part pay, full or part 
payment of fees and expenses, and/or temporary or part-time reassignment in another department, 
provided that:  

 

 

a. 

the employee has completed his or her probationary period, and  

b. 

the employee's performance is satisfactory or better.  

c.  Participation in educational or training programs during scheduled work hours is approved in 

advance by the University.  

2.   When the University requires attendance at an educational or training program, the University will pay 

the fees and related costs for materials, travel and per diem, and the employee's attendance at the 
actual program shall be considered time worked.  However, when an individual is hired with the 
understanding that specific additional training is to be obtained or completed, that individual may be 
required to participate in such training on off-duty time, without expense to the University.  

a.   Education or training which is suggested or recommended, but not required, is not "required" within 

the meaning of this Article.  

 
b.   Education or training for the acquisition or maintenance of a license shall not qualify as "required" 

within the meaning of this Article.  

 

3.   Employees attending University courses or seminars shall be eligible for fee reductions applicable to 

other staff employees at their location.  Employees attending University courses or seminars shall not 
be eligible for the services or facilities of counseling centers, gymnasium, or student health services 
incidental to such reduced-fee registration.  

4.   Non-probationary career employees who are residents of the State of California are eligible to enroll in 
regular session courses for up to nine units or three courses per quarter or semester, upon payment of 
one-third of the University Registration Fee (URF) and one-third of the University Educational Fee 
(UEF).  In the event the University provides additional URF and UEF reductions to other eligible staff 
employees, the employees in this unit shall receive such fee reductions, to the same degree that other 
staff employees are so eligible.  

5.   Eligibility for discounts for other University of California courses and programs, including University 

Extension courses, are at the sole discretion of the University.  

6.   Nothing contained in this Agreement will preclude the University from granting additional training and 

career development opportunities.  

7.  

In the event the University establishes new training programs open to all staff employees, CUE unit 
employees shall be eligible to participate in such programs to the same degree as other staff 
employees.  

8.   A non-probationary employee is eligible for up to 24 hours of paid release time for job related training.  

Such paid release time may not be accumulated or carried over from year to year, and must be 
scheduled according to staffing requirements.  Training courses provided by the University shall be 
included in the 24 hours.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
B.   DISPUTES  
 

Disputes arising from this article may be appealed to the department head in writing within 10 days of the 
denial.  The department head, or his/her designee, shall respond in writing within 10 days stating reasons the 
appeal is denied.  If the department head fails to provide the required response within 10 days, the employee 
may file a grievance in accordance with Article - Grievances only through Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure.  
In no circumstances shall such grievances be eligible for appeal to Step 3 of Article __Grievance Procedure, 
or Article -- Arbitration Procedure.  The remedy for grievances alleging a violation of this Development article 
shall be limited to providing the written reasons for the denial of training.  

 
C.   LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY  
 

Policies, procedures and qualifications in effect at the time of PERB's certification of CUE on 11/21/97 that 
are in conflict with this agreement shall remain in effect for employees at the Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory.  

 
A.   DEFINITIONS  
 

TRANSFER/PROMOTION/RECLASSIFICATION 

1.   A transfer is the change of an employee from one position to another position which is in a class having 

the same salary range maximum.  

 
2.   A promotion is the change of an employee from one position to another position which is in a class 

having a higher salary range maximum.  

 
B.   TRANSFER/PROMOTION OF EMPLOYEES  
 

1.   Whenever it is determined by the University that a vacancy in a career position within the bargaining 

unit is to be filled at a campus/hospital/Laboratory, the following procedure will apply:  

a.   Notice will be posted according to local campus procedures, either in writing or electronically.  If 

all posting is accomplished through the computer system, at least one printed posting will be 
available at the local personnel office or where application information is available.  Unless the 
vacancy is restricted to internal candidates, it will be posted for at least 10 working days.  Where 
there are varying posting periods these varying posting practices shall remain and continue.  

b.   A vacant bargaining unit career position shall be filled in the following order:  

1)  

2)  

by recall of an indefinitely laid off non-probationary career employee in accordance with 
Section - of Article - Layoff and Reduction in Time of this Agreement;  

by preferential rehire of an indefinitely laid off non-probationary career employee in 
accordance with Section-. of Article - Layoff and Reduction in Time of this Agreement;  

 

c.  

d.  

e.  

3)  

by any other qualified applicant.  

If, in the evaluation of the department head, two or more applicants are substantially equally 
qualified, the department head shall make the determination taking into consideration Article _ , 
Sections B.1. and B.3. and the University will maintain its Federal contractor status.  The 
University shall give consideration to providing transfer and promotion opportunities for career 
employees.  In considering an employee for transfer and promotion, the University shall consider 
the employee's University work performance and experience.  In those cases where the 
department head determines that qualifications of an applicant who is currently a University 
employee and qualifications of an external candidate are essentially equal, the department head 
shall reconsider the credentials (including but not limited to the resume, application, a written 
recommendation from the employee's supervisor, and/or interview responses, if any) of the 
University employee applicant(s).  

In addition, the University shall consider qualified employees who are eligible for reemployment 
in accordance with SectionC. of Article - - Rehabilitation and Section - of Article _Medical 
Separation of this Agreement.  

The University at its sole non-grievable discretion, on a location-by-location basis and on a 
vacancy by vacancy basis may, in the posting for vacancies to be filled, restrict the eligible 
applicants for the vacancy to current University employees.  

2.   Employees who are scheduled for a job interview at the same location as the employee's current 

position shall be granted reasonable time off with pay, as determined by the University, if the interview 
has been scheduled during the employee's normal work hours.  An employee scheduled for an 
interview on another campus/hospital/Laboratory shall be granted reasonable time off with pay for an 
amount of time normally equal to the time that would be required for an interview on the employee's 
own campus/hospital/laboratory.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.   Upon promotion, an employee may be granted a salary increase to the minimum of the salary range for 

the new class or of one step in amount, whichever is greater, provided that the new rate does not 
exceed the maximum of the new class.  The University at its sole non-grievable discretion may, upon 
the promotion of an employee, determine that the employee should receive an increase of greater than 
one step in amount.  The University may exercise this sole non-grievable discretion on a 
location-by-location basis and on a promotion-by-promotion basis and on a non-precedential basis.  In 
those instances where such discretion is exercised the resultant individual rate of pay shall not exceed 
the maximum of the position salary range.  

4.  

The University shall provide CUE with information concerning the number and classifications of 
bargaining unit positions posted which were restricted to current University employees, and the number 
and classification of bargaining unit positions where an employee was promoted and received more 
than a one-step increase.  This information shall be made available annually for the period of April 1st 
through March 30th and provided to CUE during the month of May.  

5.  

In accordance with campus/hospital/Laboratory practice, the University shall inform employees of 
career development and/or training programs that might assist them with transfers and/or promotions.  

6.   An employee who has been laid off and is rehired at another University location within the employee's 

period of recall will be eligible for the following as result of no break in service:  

a. 

b.  

c.  

 reinstatement of all sick leave accumulated from prior service,  

reinstatement of vacation accrual rate,  

calculation of University service based on full-time equivalent months (or hours) of University 
service, and  

d.  

buy-back of UCRP service credit according to the University Benefit Regulations  

7.   An employee may request a review of a decision denying a reclassification.  The request for a review 
shall be made in writing to the personnel department within 30 calendar days of the date on which the 
reclassification decision was issued.  The request shall state the basis upon which the employee is 
requesting a review.  The result of the review shall be issued in writing by a representative of the 
classification unit (personnel department at the Laboratory) other than the representative who issued 
the initial decision.  

8.   An employee whose position has been reclassified upward shall be granted a salary increase to the 

minimum of the salary range for the new class or one step in amount, whichever is greater.  

9.   Decisions or actions taken or not taken with regard to transfer, promotion and reclassification are not 

subject to Article- Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.  

TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
A.   GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

 
B.   REIMBURSEMENTS  
 

Employees are eligible to receive travel reimbursement in accordance with applicable University or 
Laboratory policies and/or procedures.  

1.  

The policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations, covered hours and rates relative to 
travel reimbursement(s) shall be applied, changed, or implemented for employees in the clerical and 
allied services unit in the same manner as for other staff employees in the University except as 
provided in Section C below.  

2.  

The University may determine, on a department-by-department basis and consistent with the Business 
and Finance Bulletin, the requirements for reporting travel expenses.  

3.   Per diem reimbursement rates reflect the maximum daily reimbursement provided for specific 

subsistence expenses, including meals. Other travel-related reimbursements, including but not limited 
to mileage, transportation, toll fees, and parking fees are provided in addition to the per diem 
reimbursement rates listed in Section B.2., above.  

4.   When subsistence expense(s) are paid directly by the University, the employee's per diem 

reimbursement eligibility will be reduced accordingly.  

5.   University-approved out-of-state lodging expenses will be reimbursed based on the expenses actually 

incurred as supported by receipts, provided the University gave prior approval for or requires 
actual-expense reimbursements.  

 
C.   LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY  
 

Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations, covered hours and rates relative to per diem 
rates at the Laboratory shall be applied, changed, or implemented for employees in the clerical and allied 
services unit in the same manner as for other staff employee 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
3.  

 
A. 
 

 
1.   General Provisions  
 

UNIFORMS 

Uniforms are attire required by the University to be worn in the performance of assigned duties.  

 
2.   Purchasing, Reimbursement, and Replacement Allowance  
 

a.  

The University shall have the sole discretion to determine if a uniform shall be worn, who shall wear a 
uniform and the conditions under which it must be worn.  Employees shall wear the uniform and 
maintain a proper appearance as specified by the University.  

b.   When a uniform is required by the University, an employee shall be responsible, at the time of 

employment, for the purchase of uniform components specified by the University.  

c.   Where the University currently provides either uniforms, reimbursement for uniforms, or replacement 
allowance and, for as long as the University continues its requirement that the uniform be worn, it will 
provide either the uniform, or the reimbursement for the uniform, or the replacement allowance, at the 
current rate.  

Laundering  
 
Where laundering of uniforms is currently provided by the University, such laundering shall continue while the 
requirement for uniforms continues.  
 
 

UNIVERSITY BENEFITS 

 ELIGIBILITY  

1.   Employees in the unit are eligible to participate in a number of retirement, medical, dental, and other 

University benefit programs generally available to other eligible staff employees of the University.  

 
2.  

For the life of this Agreement, the University's maximum monthly rates of contribution for employees in 
the unit who are eligible for and elect to take the medical plan and/or the dental plan shall be the same 

as the contribution rates for such plans for other employees.  Costs in excess of University 
contributions are to be paid by employees, normally through payroll deduction.  

B.   MODIFICATION OF BENEFITS  
 

 

1. 

 
2.  

1. 
 
 

C. 
 

 

 

 

 

The details of each benefit program have been independently communicated to CUE and eligible 
employees.  

The University may, at its option during the term of this Agreement, establish new coverage, alter or 
delete current coverage, alter employee and University rates of contribution, or change the carrier of 
established plans and, if the University does so, such changes will apply to employees eligible for 
benefits under this Agreement to the same extent as they apply to other eligible staff employees at the 
same campus/hospital/laboratory.  

 
3.   Specific eligibility and benefits under each of the various plans are governed entirely by the terms of 

the applicable Plan Documents, custodial agreement, University of California Group Insurance 
Regulations, group insurance contracts, and applicable state and federal laws.  Employees in an 
ineligible classification are excluded from coverage, regardless of appointment percent and average 
regular paid time.  Specific eligibility for each program is set forth in the applicable documents, 
agreements, regulations, or contracts.  

 
EFFECT OF ABSENCES FROM WORK ON BENEFITS  

Temporary Layoff/Temporary Reduction in Time/Furlough  

Health plan contributions by the University will be provided for the Clerical and Allied Services unit 
employees, in accordance with B.3., above, when the employee is affected by: temporary layoff; 
temporary reduction in time below the hours required to be eligible for health benefits; or furlough.  For 
health plans to remain in force, employees on temporary layoff or furlough must comply with the terms 
of the applicable plan documents, rules and/or regulations.  

 
2.   Military Leave  
 

An employee on military leave with pay for emergency National Guard duty or Military Reserve Training 
Leave shall receive all benefits related to employment which are granted when an employee is on pay 
status.  

3. 
 

Leaves of Absence Without Pay  

a. 

 Approved leave without pay shall not be considered a break in service and, except as provided in 
C.3.c., below, shall not determine eligibility for benefits except that the regulations of the 
retirement systems determine the effects of such leave without pay on retirement benefits.  

b.   Except as provided in C.3.c, below, an eligible employee on approved leave without pay may, in 

accordance with the plan documents, rules and regulations, elect to continue University-sponsored 
benefit plans for the period of the leave.  

c.   An employee on an approved Family Care and/or Medical Leave shall be entitled, if eligible, to 

continue participation in health plan coverage (medical, dental, and optical) as if on pay status for a 
period of up to 12 workweeks in any 12-month period.  However, an employee who exhausts her 
entitlement to health plan coverage while on an approved Pregnancy Disability Leave that runs 
concurrently with federal Family and Medical Leave, shall not be entitled to an additional 12 
workweeks of health plan coverage under the State Family Care and Medical Leave Act.  Other 
group insurance coverage and retirement benefits shall be continued in accordance with the 
provisions of the applicable group insurance and retirement system regulations.  

D.  REDUCED FEE ENROLLMENTS  
 

An employee who has retired within four months of the date of separation from University service and who is 
an annuitant of a retirement system to which the University contributes, and who meets the admission 
requirements of the University, is eligible for two-thirds reduction of both the University registration fee and 
the University educational fee as described below.  An individual so registered is ineligible for the services 
and facilities of the counseling centers, gymnasia, or student health services, other than those to which the 
retired employee may be otherwise entitled.  

1.  

 
2.  

For an employee on the quarter system, the reduced fee limit is nine units or three regular session 
University courses per quarter, whichever is greater.  

For an employee on the semester system, the reduced fee limit is six units or two regular session 
University courses, whichever is greater.  

 
E.   ENUMERATION OF UNIVERSITY BENEFITS  
 

 

 
F. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For informational purposes only, a brief outline of benefit programs in effect on the date the Agreement is 
signed is found in this Article.  More information can be found in the documents described in B.3.  

UNIVERSITY BENEFITS -- LISTING OF BENEFITS  

The following is a brief listing of benefits provided to University employees, effective date of ratification.  More 
information can be found in general University benefits publications and individual summary plan 
descriptions.  Specific eligibility and benefits under each plan are governed entirely by the terms of the 
applicable Plan Documents, custodial agreement, University of California Group Insurance Regulations, 
group insurance contracts, and state and federal laws.  Employees in an ineligible class are excluded from 
coverage regardless of appointment percent and average regular paid time.  For details on specific eligibility 
of each health and Welfare program, see the Group Insurance Regulations.  Modifications to current benefits 
may be made only in accordance with the provisions of Article - University Benefits, B. List subject to 
update.  

1.   Medical Program  

A variety of prepaid Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs) and fee-for-service plans is available to 
cover eligible employees and their eligible dependents. Choice of plans may vary from location to 
location.  

2.   Dental Program  

Dental plans are available to employees who are members of a defined benefit plan to which the 
University contributes.  Dental plans are offered which provide dental coverage for employees and their 
eligible dependents.  

3. 

Optical Program  

An optical plan is available to employees who are members of a defined benefit plan to which the 
University contributes.  The optical plan provides employees and their eligible dependents with 
coverage for vision correction.  

4. 

Life Insurance  

a.   University-Paid  

Employees who are members of a defined benefit plan to which the University contributes are 
automatically covered by a University-paid term life insurance policy 

b.   Employee-Paid  

Additional life insurance is available to eligible employees.  Optional personal life insurance and 
dependent life insurance may be purchased by the employee.  

5. 

Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance  

Optional AD&D insurance may be purchased by employees who receive monthly salaries or hourly 
wages from which regular payroll deductions can be taken.  A variety of amounts of coverage are 
available to cover employees and their eligible dependents.  

6.   Business Travel Accident Insurance  

Employees who are traveling on official University business are covered by $1 00,000 of accidental 
death and a scheduled dismemberment insurance.  

7.   University-paid Disability Insurance (UPD)  

University-paid Disability insurance is available to eligible employees for short-term disabilities.  

8. 

Employee-Paid Disability Insurance (EPD)  

Optional EPD insurance, which covers both short- and long-term disabilities, may be purchased by 
employees who are members of a defined benefit plan to which the University contributes.  Employees 
may choose a waiting period.  

9. 

 Legal Expense Insurance Plan  

A legal expense insurance plan.is available to employees who are members of a defined benefit plan to 
which the University contributes.  The legal plan provides employees and their eligible dependents with 
coverage for basic legal services associated with preventive, domestic, consumer and defensive legal 
matters.  

10.  Savings Program  

a.   Participation in the UCRS tak-deferred 403(B) plan is available to employees.  The plan provides 

the following investment options:  

1)  

2)  

3)  

UC Managed Funds - employees may choose from six investment funds: Savings, Money 
Market, Company Insurance Contract, Equity, Bond, and Multi-Asset Fund;  

The Calvert Social Investment Fund Balance; and  

Fidelity Investments Mutual Funds.  

b.   Defined Contribution Plan  

Participation in the defined contribution plan is available to employees.  Employees may choose 
from six investment funds: Savings, Money Market, Insurance Company Contract, Equity, Bond, 
and Multi-Asset Fund.  Mutual funds through Fidelity Company Investments are also available.  

IRA'S, Savings Bonds, U.S. Savings Bonds and American Century California Tax Free Trust  

Investments can be made in United States Series EE Savings Bonds and in Individual Retirement 
Accounts (IRA's).  These options are available to all employees.  

c. 
 

11.   Tax Effective Salary Reduction Programs  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.   Tax Savings on Insurance Premiums (TIP) Employees enrolled in certain health insurance plans 
are automatically enrolled in TIP, unless the employee makes an election to withdraw.  After the 
University contribution, if any, is applied the net insurance premiums are deducted from gross pay 
before federal and state taxes.  

b.   Dependent Care Assistance Program (Depcare)  

DepCare is available to eligible employees and allows employees to pay for eligible dependent 
care expenses on a pre-tax, salary reduction basis.  

12.  Auto/Homeowner Insurance  

Auto and home insurance policies are available which may be purchased by eligible employees.  

13.   Death Payments  

Upon the death of a employee who has been on pay status at least 50% time at least six continuous 
months prior to death a sum equal to the deceased's regular salary for one month shall be paid to the 
deceased's spouse, or if there is no spouse, to the employee's eligible dependent(s), or if there is 
neither a surviving spouse nor eligible dependent(s), to the beneficiary designated in the deceased's 
University-paid life insurance policy.  All monies due and payable to the employee at the time of death 
shall be paid to the employee's surviving spouse and/or eligible dependent(s).  

 
A.   University policies identified below are applicable to members of this unit.  When the University proposes and 
implements changes to these policies, the employees of this unit will be covered on the same date and to the 
same extent that the specified changes apply to all other University employees.  

UNIVERSITY POLICIES 

1.   Electronic Communications Policy (as of the date of the Tentative Agreement between the parties.)  

2.   Policy for Reporting Improper Governmental Activities and Protection Against Retaliation for Reporting 

Improper Activities (as of the date of the Tentative Agreement between the parties.) 

3.   PPSM Staff Personnel Records Policy 80#C (re: access to records by the public) [as of the date of the 

Tentative Agreement between the parties].  

 
B.   Violence in the Work Place Policies at each location as of the date of the Tentative Agreement between the 
parties shall remain and continue.  The University of California prohibits and has zero tolerance for violence 
at any UC workplace.  Any proposed change to terms and conditions of employment related to Violence in 
the Workplace Policies shall be noticed to CUE and, upon written request, the University will meet and confer 
with CUE about any changes in terms and conditions of employment that will apply to members of this unit.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

VACATION 

 
A.   The University provides vacation for rest, relaxation, and renewal to career employees and casual employees 

who are appointed at 50 percent or more of full time for six or more months.  Although vacation is provided 
for rest, a supervisor may grant an employee's request to use vacation for illness, disability, and or personal 
reasons.  Disputes arising from this section paragraph shall not be subject to Article - Grievance Procedure or 
Article - Arbitration Procedure.  

 
B.   VACATION ACCRUALS/CREDIT  
 

1.  

If a campus implements the following Factor Accrual System, an eligible employee shall earn vacation 
credit each month or quadri-weekly cycle based on the number of hours on pay status for that month or 
quadri-weekly cycle at the following rates:  

 
Years of Qualifying 
Service 
 
Less than 10 
 
10 but less than 15 
 
15 but less than 20 
 
20 or more 

 
Per Hour on Pay 
Status* 
 
0.057692 
 
0.069231 
 
0.080769 
 
0.092308 

 
Approximate Yearly 
Earning** 
 
15 days 
 
18 days 
 
21 days 
 
24 days 

 
Maximum Accumulated 
Balance  
 
240 hours 
 
288 hours  
 
336 hours 
 
384 hours 

* Hours on pay status, including paid holidays, but excluding all paid overtime hours. 
**Full time rate.  

2.  

For campuses retaining the Table Accrual System, an eligible employee shall earn vacation credit each 
month based on the number of hours on pay status for that month at the following rates:  

a.   10 hours per month for a full-time employee with less than 10 years of qualifying service;  

b.   12 hours per month for a full-time employee with at least 10 but less than 15 years of qualifying 

service;  

c.   14 hours per month for a full-time employee with at least 15 but less than 20 years of qualifying 

service; and  

d.   16 hours per month for a full-time employee with 20 years or more of qualifying service.  

3.   Earned vacation for each month or quadri-weekly cycle is credited on the first day of the following 

month or quadri-weekly cycle, except that proportionate vacation credit for an eligible employee who is 
separating from employment shall be credited at the completion of the last day on pay status.  

 

C.   ELIGIBILITY  
 

2.  

The University has the sole discretion to approve or disapprove vacation requests.  Vacation requests 
shall not be unreasonably denied.  An approved vacation request shall not be unreasonably canceled.  

3.   Vacation leave requested by an employee will be scheduled in accordance with the University's 

operational needs and departmental procedures.  Departmental procedures which restrict an 
employee's ability to schedule vacation shall be based on operational needs.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.   An employee is eligible to earn vacation credit from the date of hire, prorated in accordance with 'A., 
above, if appointed at 50percent or more of full-time for a period of six months or more.  An employee 
who is not eligible to earn vacation because of apart-time or short term appointment becomes eligible 
to earn vacation after six continuous months or quadri-weekly cycles on pay status at 50 percent time 
or more.  For the purposes of this Article, a month of qualifying service is a month of service atone-half 
time or more and a quadri-weekly cycle is defined as two bi-weekly pay periods designated by the 
University.  

2.   An employee does not earn vacation credit for time on pay status in excess of a full-time work 

schedule.  

 
D.   VACATION SCHEDULING  
 

1.   An employee may request vacation.  

E.   VACATION CREDIT USE  
 
 

 
F.   VACATION MAXIMUMS  
 

An employee may use accrued vacation upon completion of his or her probationary period.  No vacation shall 
be used prior to the time it has accrued.  

1.   A full time employee shall not accrue vacation in excess of the maximum of two times the employee's 
annual accumulation.  Apart-time employee shall accrue vacation to a pro-rated maximum number of 
hours as a full-time employee with comparable years of service.  

 
2.   Sixty days prior to an employee accruing the maximum amount of vacation, the employee shall be 

given notice that the maximum accrual will be reached.  The employee must request the scheduling of 
vacation prior to the employee reaching the maximum accrual.  If the employee's request to use such 
accrued vacation is denied due to operational considerations, that employee shall have an additional 
four months within which the employee must take the vacation to bring his or her vacation accruals 
below the maximum.  Normal vacation shall continue to accrue during the additional four-month period.  

 
G.   VACATION PAY  
 

1.   Pay for accumulated vacation shall be at the employee's straight-time rate, including any shift 

differential paid to employees permanently assigned to a shift which provides a differential.  

2.   An employee who separates from employment or who is granted extended military leave shall be paid 

for any accumulated vacation through the employee's last day of work, except that an employee who is 
retiring may use accumulated vacation up to the effective date of retirement.  

3.   An employee released during his or her probationary period shall be paid for accrued vacation time.  

 
H.   TRANSFER OF VACATION CREDIT  
 
 

An employee who is transferred, promoted, or demoted to another position at a University campus in which 
vacation credit can be accumulated shall have any accumulated vacation credit transferred, unless such 
transfer is in conflict with the terms covering the new position.  An employee who is transferred, promoted, or 
demoted to a position at a campus in which vacation credit does not accumulate shall be paid for any 
accumulated vacation at the time of transfer.  An employee who is transferred, promoted, or demoted to or 
from a Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory position shall be paid for any accumulated vacation at the 
time of transfer.  

DONATIONS FOR CATASTROPHIC LEAVE  

Any Clerical and Allied Services Unit employee may participate in a campus/hospital/laboratory's 
Catastrophic Illness/Injury Leave program, in accordance with the provisions of that location's program and 
Article __ Catastrophic/Compassionate Leave.  

 
J.   CURTAILMENT PERIOD  
 

1.   Consistent with the University's management rights, including its right to determine the orderly, 
effective and efficient operation of the University, the University may elect at one or more of its 
locations including the Laboratory, to curtail or shut down some or all of its activities, on a 
location-by-location basis, for periods of specific duration.  By way of example and not limitation, such 
periods may represent opportunities for energy/cost savings and/or adjustments to reduce levels of 
work activity due to transition periods in the academic calendar and/or "seasonal" or "holiday" 
influences on scheduled work activities and/or the occurrence at or on University facilities of major 
public events and/or the occurrence of emergency or "forces of nature" situations adversely affecting 
normal University operations.  

 

 

 

 
I.  
 
 

2.  

In the event of such total or partial closure or curtailment of operations, whether or not the University is 
able to anticipate such event, employees affected shall select one or a combination of the following 
options to cover their status during such period of time:  

a.   Employees may use accumulated vacation leave during the period.  Newly employed unit members 

would be allowed to use accrued vacation even if the required six continuous months or 
quadri-weekly cycles on pay status have not been completed.  Employees without sufficient 
accumulated vacation would be allowed to use up to three days' vacation leave prior to actual 
accrual.  

b.   Employees with accrued compensatory time may elect to use it to cover the scheduled time off or 

to offset the use of vacation time.  

c.   Employees who do not wish to use vacation or compensatory time off may elect to take a leave 

without pay during the closure.  Notwithstanding the provisions of A.5. above, if an employee is in 
leave-without-pay status due to a location closure which is three consecutive days or less in 
duration, such a full-time or part-time employee shall not lose hourly vacation accruals.  

d.   Employees who do not select from a., b. or c. above or who do not qualify for a., b. or c. above 

shall, for the period of time necessary, be placed in a leave-without-pay status.  The hourly accrual 
provisions in E.2.c. above related to location closure(s) shall also apply to employees who are 
placed in leave-without-pay status.  

WAGES 

INCREASES FOR CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT EMPLOYEES (UNIT 12) AT ALL LOCATIONS 
EXCEPT LBNL: Following receipt of written notification from CUE of its ratification and acceptance of the 
Agreement with the University of California, the University will, effective on the following dates, or the nearest 
next bi-weekly pay date, increase the salary rates for the classifications in the Clerical and Allied Services 
Unit (Unit 12) as follows and as indicated in Appendix A.  The parties recognize that the actual salary rate or 
rate adjustment for each class will vary slightly due to rounding (Appendix A.)  

1.  

1999/2000 RANGE ADJUSTMENTS  

a.   Effective October 1, 1999, or the first bi-weekly pay period following, the University will increase 

the salary ranges and steps for all classifications in the unit 2%.  

b.   Effective October 1, 1999, or the first bi-weekly pay period following, the University will increase 
the salary ranges and steps for all classifications in the unit 0.8%.  This 0.8% of the University's 
Incentive Award Program (IAP) would be incorporated into the base pay of all employees in the 
unit.  

Eligibility - to be eligible for the 2% range adjustment and the 0.8% range adjustment, the 
employee must be in the unit on the effective date of the Agreement. 

2.  

2000/2001 RANGE ADJUSTMENTS  

a.   July 1, 2000 Range Adjustment  

1)   Effective July 1, 2000, or the first bi-weekly pay period following, the University will 

increase the salary ranges and steps of all classifications in the unit by 2%.  

2)   Eligibility - to be eligible for the 2% increase on July 1, 2000, the employee must be in the 

unit on the effective date of the Agreement.  

b.   October 1, 2000 Range Adjustment  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
A.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1)   Effective October 1, 2000, or the first bi-weekly pay period following, the University will 

increase the salary ranges and steps of all classifications in the unit by 2%.  

2)   Eligibility - to be eligible for the 2% increase on l0/l/00, the employee must be in the unit on 

the effective date of the Agreement.  

c.   October 1, 2000 Increase of Ranges by one Step  

Effective October 1, 2000, or the first bi-weekly pay period following, the University will increase 
the ranges of all titles except per diem titles, by one step added at the top.  

d.   September 1, 2001 Range Adjustment  

1)   Effective September 1, 2001, or the first bi-weekly pay period following, the University will 

increase the salary ranges and steps for all classifications in the unit by 1.0%.  

2)   Eligibility - to be eligible for the 1.0% increase on 9/1/01, the employee must be in the unit 

on September 1, 2001.  

3.   MERIT INCREASE DATES ---.  The merit date for merit eligible employees will be changed from 

January 1 and July 1 eligibility to a single merit date of October 1 beginning October 1, 1999.  The 
merit program will be implemented according to local programs and timetables for an October 1, 1999 
and October 1, 2000 merit dates.  The amount of merit will be the status quo for value of performance 
evaluation outcomes.  Employees must be career, non-probationary on October 1, 1999 for the 
October 1999 merit and on October 1, 2000 for the October 2000 merit increase.  

4.   Employees at the maximum salary for their classification will receive an increase adjustment to the 

extent that the new range, if any, exceeds their present rate.  

5.   Payment of individual increases will be as soon as practicable for each campus/hospital/laboratory but 
in no case more than 150 days from ratification.  Parking fees cannot be increased until 45 days after 
payout at the location. 

6.  

INCENTIVE AWARD PROGRAM: All campus/hospital locations shall administer their 1999-2000 and 
2000-2001 Incentive Award Programs, if any, in accordance with their standard procedures and 
timetables.  

7.   Signing Bonus - All career employees in the unit on the effective date of this Agreement shall receive a 
$100 signing bonus payable at each location as soon as practicable, but in no case more than 60 days.  

8.   Employees below the range or off-step shall be placed on the appropriate step within the range and 

shall receive increases according to this Article.  

9.   Employees who retired prior to the effective date of this Agreement shall be eligible for applicable 

increases provided this does not violate UCRS regulations.  

 
D.  

INCREASES FOR ALL CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT EMPLOYEES (UNIT 12) AT THE 
LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10.  

In addition, any employee in the bargaining unit reclassified out of the unit on July 1, 2000, or after, 
shall be eligible for any applicable increases payable in a lump sum payment.  

 
C.   OTHER INCREASES:  The University may increase during the term of this Agreement for selected classes at 
selected locations: salary rates or ranges, shift differentials, on-call rates, and/or extend the coverage of such 
rates.  At least thirty (30) days prior to implementing the increase referenced in this section, the University 
shall inform CUE.  

1.  

The Side Letter of October 4, 2000 shall be incorporated into this Agreement and attached as Appendix 
- -.  

2.   All other provisions of this Wage Agreement will not apply to LBNL, except C and F.  

 
E.   PROMOTION, RECLASSIFICATION, TRANSFER OR DEMOTION ON DATE OF OTHER SALARY 

INCREASES OR RANGE ADJUSTMENTS  

If more than one salary adjustment takes place on the same date, actions occur in the following order:  

1.  

salary range adjustment and   

2.   Casual or merit increases   

3.  

salary action resulting from promotion, reclassification, transfer, or demotion.  

 
F.   The range and rate adjustments, base or non-base, if any, provided in this Article shall not be subject to the 

Grievance or Arbitration Procedure of this Agreement.  

 
G.   REPORTING OF FY 2000-2001 MERIT INCREASES TO CUE  
 

The University will provide CUE a report of the total amount of the gross regular pay for career employees 
eligible for merit increases and the amount each campus spent on merit increases and in percentages of the 
gross regular pay for eligible career employees according to this agreement.  The report will be provided as 
soon as practicable after the merit process for October 1, 2000 is completed.  

WAIVER 

 
A.   The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the 

unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not 
removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and the understandings and agreements arrived at by 
the parties after the exercise of the right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.  The rights and 
procedures granted and set forth under Staff Personnel Policy will no longer apply to employees covered by 
this Agreement.  The University and CUE, for the life of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly 
waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to 
any subject or matter referred to, or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not 
specifically referred to or covered by this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may not have been 
within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed 
this Agreement.  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
A.   GENERAL PROVISIONS  
 

WORK-INCURRED INJURY 

This Article defines the application of sick leave and vacation for employees who are unable to work due to a 
work-incurred injury or illness compensable under the California Workers' Compensation Act, and provides 
extended sick leave benefits for such employees when sick leave is exhausted and employees are still 
unable to work because of such injury or illness.  

1.   An employee unable to perform the normal duties of his or her job due to a work-incurred illness or 
injury compensable under the California Workers' Compensation Act shall be granted leave for the 
duration of a verified disability but not to exceed six months or a predetermined date of separation, 
whichever comes earlier.  The employee may request, in writing, an extension of the leave up to six 
months according to Article - Leaves of Absence, B.  

2.   Work-incurred Injury or Illness Leave runs concurrently with Family Medical Leave.  

3.   An approved leave of absence for work-incurred illnesses or injuries shall not be considered a break in 

service.  

4.   Employees who are unable to work due to a work-incurred injury or illness compensable under the 

California Workers' Compensation Act are eligible to use accrued sick leave and vacation as provided 
below.  When sick leave is exhausted and when employees are still unable to work because of such 
illness or injury, employees may use extended sick leave or leave without pay as provided below.  

5.   An employee shall notify his or her supervisor of the need for leave for a work-incurred injury or illness, 

or any extension of such leave, as soon as practicable after the need for such leave or extension is 
known.  This notification shall include written medical certification of the need for such leave or 
extension, and the anticipated return to work date.  

 
B.   EXTENSIONS OF WORK-INCURRED INJURY OR ILLNESS LEAVE  
 

In the event an employee requires an extension to his or her work-incurred injury or illness leave, the 
employee shall provide the University with a statement from his or her licensed health care practitioner of the 
need for the extension and the anticipated return to work date.  

1.   Such a statement must be provided 10 calendar days prior to the date the employee was previously 

scheduled to return to work.  

2.  

In the event prior notice is not provided, the University will not pay extended sick leave to the employee 
for the period between the previously scheduled return date and the date the statement is received.  

 
C.   RETURN FROM WORK-INCURRED INJURY OR ILLNESS LEAVE  
 

1.   Prior to returning to work, an employee granted a work-incurred injury or illness leave must provide the 
University with a statement from his or her licensed healthcare practitioner of the employee's ability to 
return to work.  When possible, an employee granted a work-incurred injury or illness leave must 
provide the University with 10 calendar days notice of his or her ability to return to work.  If a return to 
work specifies restrictions, the University will consider what accommodation, if any, will reasonably be 
made.  

 
2.  

If the position held has been abolished during the leave, the employee shall be afforded the same 
considerations which would have been afforded had that employee been on pay status when the 
position was abolished.  

 
D.   SUPPLEMENTAL SICK LEAVE AND VACATION  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.   An employee who accrues sick leave and vacation shall be permitted to use accrued sick leave and 

vacation to supplement temporary disability payments received under the California Workers' 
Compensation Act.  

2.   Sick leave and vacation payments shall be the difference between the amount payable to the employee 

under the Workers' Compensation Act and the employee's regular salary.  The additional payment 
made to an employee to provide the employee with full salary prior to receipt of disability payments 
shall be deemed an advance temporary disability payment within the Workers' Compensation Act.  

3.   An employee who receives advance temporary disability payment shall reimburse the University for 

such payment.  The reimbursement is used to restore proportionate sick leave and vacation credit as 
appropriate.  

 
E.   EXTENDED SICK LEAVE  
 

1.   An employee who is receiving temporary disability payments and who has exhausted all accrued sick 

leave shall receive extended sick leave payments from the University in an amount equal to the 

difference between the payments from Workers' Compensation and 80% of the basic salary plus any 
shift differential which the employee would have received. If such an employee returns to part-time 
University duties, the earnings plus any temporary disability payments, if less than 80% of basic salary 
plus shift differential, shall be supplemented to 80% by extended sick leave payments, provided the 
employee continues to be medically authorized for Workers' Compensation temporary disability.  Total 
extended sick leave payments shall not exceed 26 weeks for any one injury or illness.  

 
2.   An eligible employee who does not have sufficient accrued sick leave to cover the three calendar days' 

waiting period for receiving Workers' Compensation payments shall receive extended sick leave 
payment to cover any part of the waiting period not covered by sick leave.  Payment shall be made only 
after determination that the injury or illness is compensable under Workers' Compensation.  

3. 

An employee who elects not to use all sick leave is not eligible for extended sick leave benefits.  

 
F.   EFFECT ON PAY STATUS  
 

1.   Supplemental Leave  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
H.  
 

An employee who is receiving temporary disability payments and supplemental sick leave or vacation 
as described in 'D. above is considered on regular pay status for purposes of application of provisions 
of this Agreement, except completion of the probationary period.  Sick leave and vacation accrued 
during this period may be used as soon as they accrue.  

2.    Extended Sick Leave  

An employee who is receiving temporary disability payments and extended sick leave benefits as 
described in 'E. above is considered to be on regular pay status for purposes of application of 
provisions of this Agreement, except completion of the probationary period.  Sick leave and vacation 
accrued during this period is credited to the employee only upon return to work.  However, if an 
employee separates without returning to work, the employee shall be paid for vacation accrued during 
the period the employee received extended sick leave payment.  

3.  

Leave Without Pay  

An employee on leave without pay and receiving temporary disability payments accrues sick leave and 
vacation on the same basis as if regularly employed, but such accrual is credited to the employee only 
upon return to work.  If an employee separates without returning to work, no payment shall be made for 
such vacation credit.  

 
G.   SEPARATION  
 

An employee shall not use vacation, sick leave, or extended sick leave to supplement Workers' 
Compensation payments beyond a predetermined date of separation or leave without pay.  Any vacation 
credit remaining on the date of separation shall be paid on a lump-sum basis.  

LIGHT DUTY  

Subject to operational considerations and budgetary constraints, the University may, on a case-by-case 
basis, place an employee in a temporary assignment consistent with documented medical restrictions, 
when the employee has experienced work related injuries.  This section shall not be construed as a 
guarantee of a specific form of accommodation nor shall accommodation in one case establish a precedent 
for similar or dissimilar circumstances.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Appendix A- Wage Table 

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

BERKELEY CAMPUS AND
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4105

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER II

4107

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER I

4108

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASS'T

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4672

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5

3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,635.00
$2,692.00
$2,752.00
$2,815.00
$2,875.00
$2,940.00
$3,004.00
$3,068.00
$3,132.00
$3,202.00
$3,273.00

$2,512.00
$2,564.00
$2,618.00
$2,676.00
$2,733.00
$2,795.00
$2,857.00
$2,928.00
$2,993.00
$3,060.00
$3,128.00

$2,219.00
$2,258.00
$2,304.00
$2,352.00
$2,404.00
$2,460.00
$2,512.00
$2,564.00
$2,618.00
$2,677.00
$2,736.00

$3,125.00
$3,203.00
$3,272.00
$3,347.00

$3,425.00
$3,507.00
$3,591.00
$3,675.00
$3,759.00
$3,844.00
$3,928.00

$2,615.00
$2,674.00
$2,729.00
$2,792.00
$2,855.00
$2,925.00
$2,990.00
$3,059.00
$3,133.00
$3,203.00
$3,274.00

$1,932.00
$1,969.00
$2,001.00
$2,037.00
$2,077.00
$2,119.00
$2,156.00
$2,198.00
$2,238.00
$2,288.00
$2,339.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

BERKELEY CAMPUS - Cont.

4673

CLERK

4683

CLERK, TYPIST (B), SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5

5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,731.00
$1,764.00
$1,793.00
$1,828.00
$1,863.00
$1,893.00
$1,932.00
$1,969.00

$2,001.00
$2,046.00
$2,091.00

$2,001.00
$2,037.00
$2,077.00
$2,119.00
$2,156.00
$2,198.00
$2,238.00
$2,285.00
$2,331.00
$2,383.00
$2,436.00

$2,402.00
$2,458.00
$2,510.00
$2,562.00
$2,615.00
$2,674.00
$2,729.00
$2,792.00
$2,855.00
$2,919.00
$2,983.00

$2,216.00
$2,256.00
$2,302.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,458.00
$2,510.00
$2,562.00
$2,615.00
$2,674.00
$2,733.00

$2,853.00
$2,914.00
$2,987.00
$3,054.00
$3,125.00
$3,203.00
$3,272.00
$3,347.00
$3,425.00
$3,502.00
$3,579.00

$2,510.00
$2,562.00
$2,615.00
$2,674.00
$2,729.00
$2,792.00
$2,855.00
$2,925.00
$2,990.00
$3,057.00
$3,125.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

BERKELEY CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT

WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5

4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,216.00
$2,256.00
$2,302.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,458.00
$2,510.00
$2,562.00
$2,615.00
$2,674.00
$2,733.00

$2,151.00
$2,190.00
$2,234.00
$2,280.00
$2,326.00
$2,379.00
$2,433.00
$2,485.00
$2,535.00
$2,592.00
$2,649.00

$1,996.00
$2,032.00
$2,072.00
$2,113.00
$2,151.00
$2,190.00
$2,234.00
$2,280.00
$2,326.00
$2,378.00
$2,431.00

$1,858.00
$1,888.00
$1,926.00
$1,965.00
$1,996.00
$2,032.00
$2,072.00
$2,119.00
$2,166.00

$2,555.00
$2,608.00
$2,663.00
$2,722.00
$2,776.00
$2,842.00

$2,905.00
$2,974.00
$3,045.00
$3,114.00
$3,182.00

$2,253.00
$2,299.00
$2,345.00
$2,392.00
$2,447.00
$2,501.00
$2,555.00
$2,608.00
$2,663.00
$2,723.00
$2,783.00

$2,091.00
$2,132.00
$2,175.00
$2,216.00
$2,253.00
$2,299.00
$2,345.00
$2,392.00
$2,447.00
$2,502.00
$2,557.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

BERKELEY CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4961

CODER, SR

4962

CODER

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4999

SECRETARY, LEGAL, SR

5000

SECRETARY, LEGAL

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT

WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2

2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,592.00
$2,650.00
$2,709.00

$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,329.00
$2,381.00

$3,347.00
$3,425.00
$3,507.00
$3,591.00
$3,675.00
$3,759.00
$3,849.00
$3,938.00
$4,035.00
$4,126.00
$4,217.00

$2,729.00
$2,792.00
$2,855.00
$2,925.00
$2,990.00
$3,059.00
$3,133.00
$3,203.00
$3,274.00
$3,348.00
$3,421.00

$2,510.00
$2,562.00
$2,615.00

$2,674.00
$2,729.00
$2,792.00
$2,855.00
$2,925.00
$2,990.00
$3,057.00
$3,125.00

$2,853.00
$2,914.00
$2,987.00
$3,054.00
$3,125.00
$3,203.00
$3,272.00
$3,347.00
$3,425.00
$3,502.00
$3,579.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

BERKELEY CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6732

BIBLIOGRAPHER II

6733

BIBLIOGRAPHER I

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATO,PRIN

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,286.00
$2,337.00
$2,393.00
$2,443.00
$2,494.00
$2,548.00
$2,605.00
$2,663.00

$1,895.00
$1,930.00
$1,965.00
$1,997.00
$2,038.00
$2,079.00
$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,247.00
$2,297.00

$2,718.00
$2,778.00
$2,844.00
$2,908.00
$2,977.00
$3,051.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,260.00
$3,333.00
$3,407.00

$2,443.00
$2,494.00
$2,548.00
$2,603.00
$2,656.00
$2,718.00
$2,778.00
$2,844.00
$2,908.00
$2,973.00
$3,039.00

$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,286.00
$2,337.00
$2,393.00
$2,443.00
$2,494.00
$2,548.00
$2,605.00
$2,663.00

$1,895.00
$1,930.00
$1,965.00
$1,997.00
$2,038.00
$2,079.00
$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,247.00
$2,297.00

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

BERKELEY CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR, SR

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

7232

SURVEY WORKER, SR

7233

SURVEY WORKER

SAN FRANCISCO CAMPUS (02)

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4105

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER II

4107

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER I

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5

5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$2,216.00
$2,256.00
$2,302.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,458.00
$2,510.00
$2,562.00
$2,615.00
$2,674.00
$2,733.00

$1,932.00
$1,969.00
$2,001.00
$2,037.00
$2,077.00
$2,119.00
$2,156.00
$2,198.00
$2,238.00
$2,288.00
$2,339.00

$2,546.00
$2,599.00
$2,656.00
$2,710.00
$2,773.00
$2,836.00
$2,902.00
$2,967.00

$3,040.00
$3,108.00
$3,177.00

$2,240.00
$2,286.00
$2,334.00
$2,386.00
$2,442.00
$2,493.00
$2,546.00
$2,599.00
$2,656.00
$2,716.00
$2,776.00

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN FRANCISCO CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4108

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASS'T

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4672

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

4673

CLERK

4683

CLERK, TYPIST (B), SR

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,767.00
$1,799.00
$1,829.00
$1,865.00
$1,895.00
$1,933.00
$1,970.00
$2,003.00
$2,040.00
$2,086.00
$2,132.00

$3,173.00
$3,243.00
$3,319.00
$3,394.00
$3,476.00
$3,561.00
$3,642.00
$3,731.00
$3,817.00
$3,903.00
$3,989.00

$2,653.00
$2,708.00
$2,771.00
$2,833.00
$2,899.00
$2,964.00
$3,035.00
$3,108.00
$3,173.00
$3,244.00
$3,316.00

$1,959.00
$1,993.00
$2,027.00
$2,068.00
$2,108.00
$2,147.00
$2,187.00
$2,228.00
$2,274.00
$2,325.00
$2,376.00

$1,757.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,854.00
$1,884.00
$1,923.00
$1,959.00
$1,993.00
$2,027.00
$2,118.00
$2,073.00

$2,027.00
$2,068.00
$2,108.00
$2,147.00
$2,187.00
$2,228.00
$2,274.00
$2,322.00
$2,374.00
$2,427.00
$2,481.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45

$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45

$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN FRANCISCO CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,384.00
$2,441.00
$2,491.00
$2,543.00
$2,596.00
$2,653.00
$2,708.00
$2,771.00
$2,833.00
$2,897.00
$2,960.00

$2,199.00
$2,238.00
$2,284.00
$2,332.00
$2,384.00
$2,441.00
$2,491.00
$2,543.00
$2,596.00
$2,654.00
$2,713.00

$2,893.00
$2,959.00
$3,025.00
$3,101.00
$3,173.00
$3,243.00
$3,319.00
$3,394.00
$3,476.00
$3,554.00
$3,632.00

$2,543.00
$2,596.00
$2,653.00
$2,708.00
$2,771.00
$2,833.00
$2,899.00
$2,964.00
$3,035.00
$3,103.00
$3,172.00

$2,238.00
$2,284.00
$2,332.00
$2,384.00
$2,441.00
$2,491.00
$2,543.00
$2,596.00
$2,653.00
$2,713.00
$2,772.00

$2,228.00
$2,274.00
$2,322.00
$2,374.00
$2,430.00
$2,479.00
$2,529.00
$2,583.00
$2,639.00
$2,698.00
$2,758.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45
$0.45

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN FRANCISCO CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

4961

CODER, SR

4962

CODER

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT

WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3

3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,068.00
$2,108.00
$2,147.00
$2,187.00
$2,228.00
$2,274.00
$2,322.00
$2,374.00
$2,430.00
$2,485.00
$2,539.00

$1,923.00
$1,959.00
$1,993.00
$2,027.00
$2,068.00
$2,108.00
$2,147.00
$2,195.00
$2,245.00

$2,565.00
$2,618.00
$2,676.00
$2,733.00
$2,795.00
$2,857.00
$2,928.00
$2,993.00
$3,062.00
$3,131.00
$3,200.00

$2,258.00
$2,304.00
$2,352.00
$2,404.00
$2,459.00

$2,513.00
$2,565.00
$2,618.00
$2,676.00
$2,736.00
$2,796.00

$2,096.00
$2,138.00
$2,178.00
$2,217.00
$2,258.00
$2,304.00
$2,352.00
$2,404.00
$2,459.00
$2,514.00
$2,570.00

$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,592.00
$2,650.00
$2,709.00

$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,329.00
$2,381.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN FRANCISCO CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6732

BIBLIOGRAPHER II

6733

BIBLIOGRAPHER I

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,510.00
$2,562.00
$2,615.00
$2,674.00
$2,729.00
$2,792.00
$2,855.00
$2,925.00
$2,990.00
$3,057.00
$3,125.00

$2,853.00
$2,914.00
$2,987.00
$3,054.00
$3,125.00
$3,203.00
$3,272.00
$3,347.00
$3,425.00
$3,502.00
$3,579.00

$2,239.00
$2,284.00
$2,331.00
$2,384.00
$2,440.00
$2,490.00
$2,543.00
$2,596.00
$2,654.00
$2,714.00
$2,773.00

$1,967.00
$2,001.00
$2,037.00
$2,077.00
$2,119.00
$2,159.00
$2,198.00
$2,239.00
$2,284.00
$2,335.00
$2,387.00

$2,832.00
$2,899.00
$2,964.00
$3,032.00
$3,108.00
$3,174.00
$3,246.00
$3,323.00
$3,403.00
$3,480.00
$3,556.00

$2,543.00
$2,596.00
$2,654.00
$2,706.00
$2,770.00
$2,832.00
$2,899.00
$2,964.00
$3,032.00
$3,100.00
$3,168.00

$2,239.00
$2,284.00
$2,331.00
$2,384.00
$2,440.00
$2,490.00
$2,543.00
$2,596.00
$2,654.00
$2,714.00
$2,773.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN FRANCISCO CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATO,PRIN

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR, SR

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

7232

SURVEY WORKER, SR

7233

SURVEY WORKER

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,967.00
$2,001.00
$2,037.00
$2,077.00
$2,119.00
$2,159.00
$2,198.00
$2,239.00
$2,284.00
$2,335.00
$2,387.00

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$2,238.00
$2,284.00
$2,332.00
$2,384.00
$2,441.00
$2,491.00
$2,543.00
$2,596.00
$2,653.00
$2,713.00
$2,772.00

$1,959.00
$1,993.00
$2,027.00
$2,068.00
$2,108.00
$2,147.00
$2,187.00
$2,228.00
$2,274.00
$2,325.00
$2,376.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

DAVIS CAMPUS (03)

LINKAGE GROUP 002

TITLE NAME

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4671

4672

SR CLERK/SECRETARY, PER DIEM

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

4673

CLERK

4674

CLERK, PER DIEM

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,336.00
$3,420.00
$3,500.00
$3,581.00
$3,662.00
$3,742.00

$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,856.00
$2,924.00
$2,990.00
$3,056.00

$2,034.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$1,829.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,591.00
$2,648.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

DAVIS CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

4729

---ASSISTANT I, PER DIEM

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4730

4731

LINKAGE GROUP 001

---ASSISTANT II, PER DIEM

---ASSISTANT III, PER DIEM

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

$2,717.00
$2,780.00
$2,843.00
$2,909.00
$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,337.00
$3,411.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,488.00
$2,542.00

$2,276.00

$2,585.00

$2,989.00

$2,105.00
$2,146.00
$2,186.00
$2,228.00
$2,275.00
$2,321.00
$2,372.00
$2,427.00
$2,478.00
$2,534.00
$2,590.00

$1,959.00
$1,992.00
$2,025.00
$2,067.00
$2,105.00
$2,146.00
$2,186.00
$2,228.00
$2,275.00
$2,326.00
$2,377.00

$1,818.00
$1,855.00
$1,884.00
$1,922.00
$1,959.00
$1,992.00
$2,025.00
$2,071.00
$2,117.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

DAVIS CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4961

CODER, SR

4962

CODER

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,384.00
$2,439.00
$2,490.00
$2,543.00
$2,595.00
$2,653.00
$2,707.00
$2,770.00
$2,831.00
$2,895.00
$2,958.00

$2,119.00
$2,156.00
$2,198.00
$2,238.00
$2,285.00
$2,331.00
$2,384.00
$2,439.00
$2,490.00
$2,546.00
$2,602.00

$1,969.00
$2,001.00
$2,037.00
$2,077.00
$2,119.00
$2,156.00
$2,198.00
$2,238.00
$2,285.00
$2,336.00
$2,388.00

$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,592.00
$2,650.00
$2,709.00

$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,329.00
$2,381.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

DAVIS CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6732

BIBLIOGRAPHER II

6733

BIBLIOGRAPHER I

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,717.00
$2,780.00
$2,843.00
$2,909.00
$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,337.00
$3,411.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,857.00
$2,924.00
$2,992.00
$3,063.00
$3,128.00
$3,202.00
$3,274.00
$3,346.00

$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,614.00
$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

DAVIS CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATO,PRIN

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR, SR

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

7232

SURVEY WORKER, SR

7233

SURVEY WORKER

LOS ANGELES CAMPUS (04)

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4105

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER II

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6
6.5
7
7.5
8
8.5
9

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,488.00
$2,542.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00

$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$2,462.00
$2,518.00
$2,572.00
$2,623.00
$2,680.00
$2,740.00
$2,794.00
$2,859.00
$2,925.00
$2,996.00
$3,067.00
$3,141.00
$3,216.00
$3,293.00
$3,372.00
$3,453.00
$3,536.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

LOS ANGELES CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4107

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER I

4108

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASS'T

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4671

4672

SR CLERK/SECRETARY, PER DIEM

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

4673

CLERK

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6
6.5
7
7.5
8
8.5
9

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,860.00
$1,895.00
$1,932.00
$1,967.00
$1,999.00
$2,039.00
$2,079.00
$2,120.00
$2,155.00
$2,207.00
$2,260.00
$2,316.00
$2,372.00
$2,429.00
$2,486.00
$2,546.00
$2,606.00

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$3,105.00
$3,174.00
$3,254.00
$3,324.00
$3,400.00
$3,480.00
$3,562.00
$3,645.00
$3,733.00
$3,817.00
$3,901.00

$2,558.00
$2,612.00
$2,667.00
$2,726.00
$2,781.00
$2,845.00
$2,908.00
$2,980.00
$3,048.00
$3,117.00
$3,185.00

$2,034.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

LOS ANGELES CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4674

4683

CLERK, PER DIEM

CLERK, TYPIST (B), SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

4729

---ASSISTANT I, PER DIEM

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4730

---ASSISTANT II, PER DIEM

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1

$1,829.00

$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,280.00
$2,330.00

$2,448.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,612.00
$2,667.00
$2,726.00
$2,781.00
$2,845.00
$2,908.00
$2,973.00
$3,039.00

$2,256.00
$2,300.00
$2,346.00
$2,394.00
$2,448.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,612.00
$2,667.00
$2,727.00
$2,787.00

$2,832.00
$2,898.00
$2,963.00
$3,035.00
$3,105.00
$3,174.00
$3,254.00
$3,324.00
$3,400.00
$3,477.00
$3,553.00

$2,448.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,612.00
$2,667.00
$2,726.00
$2,781.00
$2,845.00
$2,908.00
$2,973.00
$3,039.00

$2,177.00
$2,217.00
$2,256.00
$2,300.00
$2,346.00
$2,394.00
$2,448.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,616.00
$2,673.00

$2,395.00

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$2,837.00

$0.37

$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

LOS ANGELES CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 002

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING

NIGHT WKEND

4731

---ASSISTANT III, PER DIEM

1

$3,301.00

$0.37

$0.37

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

LINKAGE GROUP 004

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4961

CODER, SR

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,306.00
$2,359.00
$2,412.00
$2,464.00
$2,519.00
$2,575.00

$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,057.00
$2,096.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,312.00
$2,363.00

$1,809.00
$1,845.00
$1,874.00
$1,913.00
$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,062.00
$2,109.00

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,833.00
$2,900.00
$2,963.00
$3,035.00
$3,103.00
$3,175.00
$3,253.00
$3,326.00
$3,399.00

$2,497.00
$2,551.00
$2,606.00
$2,661.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,833.00
$2,900.00
$2,963.00
$3,030.00
$3,096.00

$2,219.00
$2,258.00
$2,299.00
$2,345.00
$2,392.00
$2,441.00
$2,497.00
$2,551.00
$2,606.00
$2,665.00
$2,723.00

$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,592.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

5.5
6

$2,650.00
$2,709.00

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING
$0.37
$0.37

NIGHT WKEND
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

LOS ANGELES CAMPUS - Cont.

4962

CODER

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4999

SECRETARY, LEGAL, SR

5000

SECRETARY, LEGAL

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

5217

DISPATCHER, LEAD PUBLIC SAFETY

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6732

BIBLIOGRAPHER II

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,329.00
$2,381.00

$2,906.00
$2,966.00
$3,039.00
$3,105.00
$3,178.00
$3,253.00
$3,326.00
$3,410.00
$3,482.00
$3,560.00
$3,639.00

$2,509.00
$2,564.00
$2,623.00
$2,680.00
$2,738.00
$2,793.00
$2,856.00
$2,912.00
$2,984.00
$3,051.00
$3,118.00

$2,456.00
$2,514.00
$2,566.00
$2,621.00
$2,675.00
$2,738.00
$2,791.00
$2,856.00
$2,919.00
$2,985.00
$3,050.00

$2,842.00
$2,908.00
$2,974.00
$3,048.00
$3,117.00
$3,186.00
$3,268.00
$3,335.00
$3,413.00
$3,490.00
$3,567.00

$2,974.00
$3,048.00
$3,117.00
$3,186.00
$3,268.00
$3,335.00
$3,413.00
$3,492.00
$3,575.00
$3,655.00
$3,736.00

$2,166.00
$2,205.00
$2,247.00
$2,290.00
$2,336.00
$2,384.00
$2,439.00
$2,493.00
$2,547.00
$2,604.00
$2,662.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

LOS ANGELES CAMPUS - Cont.

6733

BIBLIOGRAPHER I

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATO,PRIN

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR, SR

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,935.00
$$1,978.00
$2,013.00
$2,048.00
$2,084.00
$2,125.00
$2,166.00
$2,205.00
$2,247.00
$2,298.00
$2,348.00

$2,844.00
$2,911.00
$2,978.00
$3,051.00
$3,116.00
$3,188.00
$3,270.00
$3,336.00
$3,414.00
$3,491.00
$3,568.00

$2,439.00
$2,493.00
$2,547.00
$2,601.00
$2,654.00
$2,713.00
$2,767.00
$2,834.00
$2,896.00
$2,961.00
$3,026.00

$2,166.00
$2,205.00
$2,247.00
$2,290.00
$2,336.00
$2,384.00
$2,439.00
$2,493.00
$2,547.00
$2,604.00
$2,662.00

$1,935.00
$1,978.00
$2,013.00
$2,048.00
$2,084.00
$2,125.00
$2,166.00
$2,205.00
$2,247.00
$2,298.00
$2,348.00

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

LOS ANGELES CAMPUS - Cont.

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7232

SURVEY WORKER, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 01

7233

SURVEY WORKER

RIVERSIDE CAMPUS (05)

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4105

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER II

4107

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER I

4108

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASS'T

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$2,177.00
$2,217.00
$2,256.00
$2,300.00
$2,346.00
$2,394.00
$2,448.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,673.00
$2,616.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$2,739.00
$2,803.00
$2,867.00
$2,935.00
$3,005.00
$3,071.00
$3,149.00
$3,216.00
$3,287.00
$3,361.00
$3,435.00

$2,362.00
$2,415.00
$2,466.00
$2,516.00
$2,569.00
$2,629.00
$2,682.00
$2,745.00
$2,805.00
$2,868.00
$2,931.00

$1,673.00
$1,701.00
$1,734.00
$1,764.00
$1,793.00
$1,829.00
$1,860.00
$1,895.00
$1,932.00
$1,975.00
$2,019.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

RIVERSIDE CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4672

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

4673

CLERK

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,336.00
$3,420.00
$3,500.00
$3,581.00
$3,662.00
$3,742.00

$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,856.00
$2,924.00
$2,990.00
$3,056.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,166.00
$2,206.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,615.00
$2,672.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

RIVERSIDE CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT

WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

$2,717.00
$2,780.00
$2,843.00
$2,909.00
$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,337.00
$3,411.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,166.00
$2,206.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,509.00
$2,564.00

$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,306.00
$2,359.00
$2,412.00
$2,464.00
$2,519.00
$2,575.00

$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,057.00
$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,312.00
$2,363.00

$1,809.00
$1,845.00
$1,874.00
$1,913.00
$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,062.00
$2,109.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

RIVERSIDE CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 004

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4961

CODER, SR

4962

CODER

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING

NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,166.00
$2,206.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,509.00
$2,564.00

$1,939.00
$1,976.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,166.00
$2,206.00
$2,250.00
$2,301.00
$2,351.00

$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,592.00
$2,650.00
$2,709.00

$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,329.00
$2,381.00

$2,108.00
$2,147.00
$2,186.00
$2,228.00
$2,275.00
$2,321.00
$2,374.00
$2,429.00
$2,478.00
$2,534.00
$2,590.00

$2,374.00
$2,429.00
$2,478.00
$2,530.00
$2,583.00
$2,639.00
$2,692.00
$2,758.00
$2,818.00
$2,881.00
$2,945.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

RIVERSIDE CAMPUS - Cont.

5217

DISPATCHER, LEAD PUBLIC SAFETY

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6732

BIBLIOGRAPHER II

6733

BIBLIOGRAPHER I

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT

WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,551.00
$2,609.00
$2,664.00
$2,719.00
$2,775.00
$2,838.00
$2,897.00
$2,963.00
$3,027.00
$3,095.00
$3,163.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,857.00
$2,924.00
$2,992.00
$3,063.00
$3,128.00
$3,202.00
$3,274.00
$3,346.00

$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,614.00
$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

RIVERSIDE CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATO,PRIN

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR, SR

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7232

SURVEY WORKER, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7233

SURVEY WORKER

SAN DIEGO CAMPUS (06)

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4105

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER II

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,166.00
$2,206.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,509.00
$2,564.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$2,362.00
$2,415.00
$2,466.00
$2,516.00
$2,569.00
$2,629.00
$2,682.00
$2,745.00
$2,805.00
$2,868.00
$2,931.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN DIEGO CAMPUS - Cont.

4107

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER I

4108

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASS'T

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4671

4672

SR CLERK/SECRETARY, PER DIEM

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

4673

CLERK

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,088.00
$2,129.00
$2,164.00
$2,207.00
$2,251.00
$2,298.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,336.00
$3,420.00
$3,500.00
$3,581.00
$3,662.00
$3,742.00

$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,856.00
$2,924.00
$2,990.00
$3,056.00

$2,034.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN DIEGO CAMPUS - Cont.

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

4674

CLERK, PER DIEM

1

$1,829.00

$0.37

$0.37

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

4729

---ASSISTANT I, PER DIEM

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4730

4731

---ASSISTANT II, PER DIEM

---ASSISTANT III, PER DIEM

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1

1

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,152.00
$2,194.00
$2,239.00
$2,285.00
$2,337.00
$2,391.00
$2,442.00
$2,493.00
$2,545.00
$2,602.00
$2,660.00

$2,717.00
$2,780.00
$2,843.00
$2,909.00
$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,337.00
$3,411.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,077.00
$2,117.00
$2,152.00
$2,194.00
$2,239.00
$2,285.00
$2,337.00
$2,391.00
$2,442.00
$2,497.00
$2,552.00

$2,285.00

$2,585.00

$2,989.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN DIEGO CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

LINKAGE GROUP 004

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4961

CODER, SR

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING

NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,306.00
$2,359.00
$2,412.00
$2,464.00
$2,519.00
$2,575.00

$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,057.00
$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,312.00
$2,363.00

$1,809.00
$1,845.00
$1,874.00
$1,913.00
$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,062.00
$2,109.00

$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,839.00
$2,902.00

$2,079.00
$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,499.00
$2,554.00

$1,931.00
$1,966.00
$1,997.00
$2,038.00
$2,079.00
$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,290.00
$2,341.00

$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,592.00
$2,650.00
$2,709.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN DIEGO CAMPUS - Cont.

4962

CODER

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6732

BIBLIOGRAPHER II

6733

BIBLIOGRAPHER I

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

STEP MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,329.00
$2,381.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,856.00
$2,924.00
$2,993.00
$3,064.00
$3,133.00
$3,202.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,857.00
$2,924.00
$2,992.00
$3,063.00
$3,128.00
$3,202.00
$3,274.00
$3,346.00

$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,614.00
$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN DIEGO CAMPUS - Cont.

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATO,PRIN

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR, SR

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7232

SURVEY WORKER, SR

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING

NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$2,077.00
$2,117.00
$2,152.00
$2,194.00
$2,239.00
$2,285.00
$2,337.00
$2,391.00
$2,442.00
$2,497.00
$2,552.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SAN DIEGO CAMPUS - Cont.

7233

SURVEY WORKER

SANTA CRUZ CAMPUS (07)

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4105

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER II

4107

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER I

4108

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASS'T

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

STEP MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$2,362.00
$2,415.00
$2,466.00
$2,516.00
$2,569.00
$2,629.00
$2,682.00
$2,745.00
$2,805.00
$2,868.00
$2,931.00

$2,079.00
$2,120.00
$2,155.00
$2,200.00
$2,244.00
$2,289.00
$2,340.00
$2,394.00
$2,445.00
$2,500.00
$2,555.00

$1,673.00
$1,701.00
$1,734.00
$1,764.00
$1,793.00
$1,829.00
$1,860.00
$1,895.00
$1,932.00
$1,975.00
$2,019.00

$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,336.00
$3,420.00
$3,500.00
$3,581.00
$3,662.00
$3,742.00

$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,856.00
$2,924.00
$2,990.00
$3,056.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA CRUZ CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4672

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

4673

CLERK

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,591.00
$2,648.00

$2,717.00
$2,780.00
$2,843.00
$2,909.00
$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,337.00
$3,411.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA CRUZ CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

LINKAGE GROUP 004

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

STEP MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,488.00
$2,542.00

$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,306.00
$2,359.00
$2,412.00
$2,464.00
$2,519.00
$2,575.00

$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,057.00
$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,312.00
$2,363.00

$1,809.00
$1,845.00
$1,874.00
$1,913.00
$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,062.00
$2,109.00

$2,411.00
$2,468.00
$2,518.00
$2,570.00
$2,624.00
$2,685.00
$2,740.00
$2,801.00
$2,868.00
$2,933.00
$2,997.00

$2,145.00
$2,183.00
$2,225.00
$2,267.00
$2,312.00
$2,358.00
$2,411.00
$2,468.00
$2,518.00
$2,575.00
$2,631.00

$1,992.00
$2,027.00
$2,062.00
$2,102.00
$2,145.00
$2,183.00
$2,225.00
$2,267.00
$2,312.00
$2,364.00
$2,416.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA CRUZ CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

5217

DISPATCHER, LEAD PUBLIC SAFETY

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,166.00
$2,206.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,509.00
$2,564.00

$2,466.00
$2,523.00
$2,577.00
$2,632.00
$2,685.00
$2,745.00
$2,799.00
$2,868.00
$2,931.00
$2,997.00
$3,063.00

$2,722.00
$2,789.00
$2,837.00
$2,914.00
$2,986.00
$3,056.00
$3,128.00
$3,197.00
$3,270.00
$3,344.00
$3,417.00

$2,718.00
$2,784.00
$2,843.00
$2,910.00
$2,980.00
$3,049.00
$3,122.00
$3,188.00
$3,260.00
$3,333.00
$3,407.00

$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,614.00
$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50

$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50

$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.50
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA CRUZ CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATO,PRIN

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR, SR

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

SANTA BARBARA CAMPUS (08)

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4105

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER II

4107

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER I

4108

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASS'T

STEP MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$2,362.00
$2,415.00
$2,466.00
$2,516.00
$2,569.00
$2,629.00
$2,682.00
$2,745.00
$2,805.00
$2,868.00
$2,931.00

$2,088.00
$2,129.00
$2,164.00
$2,207.00
$2,251.00
$2,298.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,673.00
$1,701.00
$1,734.00
$1,764.00
$1,793.00
$1,829.00
$1,860.00
$1,895.00
$1,932.00
$1,975.00
$2,019.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA BARBARA CAMPUS -
Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4672

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

4673

CLERK

4683

CLERK, TYPIST (B), SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

STEP MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,336.00
$3,420.00
$3,500.00
$3,581.00
$3,662.00
$3,742.00

$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,856.00
$2,924.00
$2,990.00
$3,056.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,280.00
$2,330.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA BARBARA CAMPUS -
Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

STEP MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,152.00
$2,194.00
$2,239.00
$2,285.00
$2,337.00
$2,391.00
$2,442.00
$2,493.00
$2,545.00
$2,602.00
$2,660.00

$2,717.00
$2,780.00
$2,843.00
$2,909.00
$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,337.00
$3,411.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,077.00
$2,117.00
$2,152.00
$2,194.00
$2,239.00
$2,285.00
$2,337.00
$2,391.00
$2,442.00
$2,497.00
$2,552.00

$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,488.00
$2,542.00

$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,280.00
$2,330.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.04
$0.04
$0.04
$0.04
$0.04
$0.04
$0.04

$0.04
$0.04
$0.04
$0.04
$0.04
$0.04
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA BARBARA CAMPUS -
Cont.

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

LINKAGE GROUP 004

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4961

CODER, SR

4962

CODER

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,033.00
$2,078.00

$2,442.00
$2,493.00
$2,545.00
$2,601.00
$2,654.00
$2,715.00
$2,775.00
$2,841.00
$2,905.00
$2,970.00
$3,036.00

$2,239.00
$2,285.00
$2,337.00
$2,391.00
$2,442.00
$2,493.00
$2,545.00
$2,601.00
$2,654.00
$2,714.00
$2,773.00

$2,077.00
$2,117.00
$2,152.00
$2,194.00
$2,239.00
$2,285.00
$2,337.00
$2,391.00
$2,442.00
$2,497.00
$2,552.00

$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,592.00
$2,650.00
$2,709.00

$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,329.00
$2,381.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,166.00
$2,206.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,509.00
$2,564.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA BARBARA CAMPUS -
Cont.

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

5217

DISPATCHER, LEAD PUBLIC SAFETY

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6732

BIBLIOGRAPHER II

6733

BIBLIOGRAPHER I

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIF DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,563.00
$2,635.00
$2,714.00
$2,775.00
$2,847.00
$2,915.00
$2,987.00
$3,057.00
$3,127.00
$3,197.00
$3,268.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,857.00
$2,924.00
$2,992.00
$3,063.00
$3,128.00
$3,202.00
$3,274.00
$3,346.00

$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,506.00
$2,558.00
$2,614.00
$2,667.00
$2,733.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,207.00
$2,250.00
$2,296.00
$2,348.00
$2,403.00
$2,453.00
$2,508.00
$2,563.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

SANTA BARBARA CAMPUS -
Cont.

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATO,PRIN

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR, SR

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7232

SURVEY WORKER, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7233

SURVEY WORKER

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIF DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,867.00
$1,905.00
$1,939.00
$1,974.00
$2,008.00
$2,048.00
$2,089.00
$2,129.00
$2,165.00
$2,214.00
$2,262.00

$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$2,077.00
$2,117.00
$2,152.00
$2,194.00
$2,239.00
$2,285.00
$2,337.00
$2,442.00
$2,497.00
$2,552.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40

$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.40
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

IRVINE CAMPUS (09)

LINKAGE GROUP 001

TITLE NAME

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

4105

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER II

4107

CHILD DEVELOP CENTR TEACHER I

4108

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER ASS'T

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4621

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4622

COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4671

4672

SR CLERK/SECRETARY, PER DIEM

CLERK, SR/SECRETARY

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,362.00
$2,415.00
$2,466.00
$2,516.00
$2,569.00
$2,629.00
$2,682.00
$2,745.00
$2,805.00
$2,868.00
$2,931.00

$2,147.00
$2,187.00
$2,227.00
$2,272.00
$2,317.00
$2,364.00
$2,415.00
$2,471.00
$2,523.00
$2,580.00
$2,637.00

$1,860.00
$1,895.00
$1,932.00
$1,967.00
$1,999.00
$2,039.00
$2,079.00
$2,120.00
$2,155.00
$2,203.00
$2,252.00

$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,336.00
$3,420.00
$3,500.00
$3,581.00
$3,662.00
$3,742.00

$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,856.00
$2,924.00
$2,990.00
$3,056.00

$2,034.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

IRVINE CAMPUS - Cont.

4673

CLERK

4674

4683

CLERK, PER DIEM

CLERK, TYPIST (B), SR

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4691

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4692

COMPOSITOR, GRAPHIC

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4722

_____ASSISTANT III

4723

_____ASSISTANT II

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIF DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$1,663.00
$1,691.00
$1,722.00
$1,751.00
$1,784.00
$1,820.00
$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,965.00
$2,008.00

$1,829.00

$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,280.00
$2,330.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$2,216.00
$2,256.00
$2,302.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,458.00
$2,510.00
$2,562.00
$2,615.00
$2,674.00
$2,733.00

$2,717.00
$2,780.00
$2,843.00
$2,909.00
$2,978.00
$3,048.00
$3,122.00
$3,192.00
$3,264.00
$3,337.00
$3,411.00

$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,454.00
$2,507.00
$2,557.00
$2,614.00
$2,668.00
$2,730.00
$2,791.00
$2,854.00
$2,917.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

IRVINE CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4724

_____ASSISTANT I

4729

---ASSISTANT I, PER DIEM

LINKAGE GROUP 002

4730

4731

LINKAGE GROUP 001

---ASSISTANT II, PER DIEM

---ASSISTANT III, PER DIEM

4772

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, LEAD

4773

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR

4774

KEY ENTRY OPERATOR, ASST

LINKAGE GROUP 004

4951

WORD PROCESSING SPEC, PRIN

4952

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST, SR

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIF DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1

1

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,216.00
$2,256.00
$2,302.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,458.00
$2,510.00
$2,566.00
$2,623.00

$2,351.00

$2,722.00

$3,167.00

$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,306.00
$2,359.00
$2,412.00
$2,464.00
$2,519.00
$2,575.00

$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,057.00
$2,095.00
$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,217.00
$2,261.00
$2,312.00
$2,363.00

$1,809.00
$1,845.00
$1,874.00
$1,913.00
$1,947.00
$1,983.00
$2,017.00
$2,062.00
$2,109.00

$2,459.00
$2,516.00
$2,568.00
$2,623.00
$2,678.00
$2,738.00
$2,791.00
$2,858.00
$2,925.00
$2,991.00
$3,057.00

$2,186.00
$2,228.00
$2,270.00
$2,309.00
$2,357.00
$2,405.00
$2,459.00
$2,516.00
$2,568.00
$2,626.00
$2,684.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

IRVINE CAMPUS - Cont.

4953

WORD PROCESSING SPECIALIST

LINKAGE GROUP 001

4961

CODER, SR

4962

CODER

LINKAGE GROUP 004

5215

DISPATCHER, PUB SAFETY, ASSIST

5216

DISPATCHER, PUBLIC SAFETY

LINKAGE GROUP 003

6732

BIBLIOGRAPHER II

6733

BIBLIOGRAPHER I

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,032.00
$2,068.00
$2,103.00
$2,144.00
$2,186.00
$2,228.00
$2,270.00
$2,309.00
$2,357.00
$2,410.00
$2,463.00

$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,328.00
$2,381.00
$2,433.00
$2,484.00
$2,534.00
$2,592.00
$2,650.00

$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,186.00
$2,230.00
$2,278.00
$2,329.00
$2,381.00

$2,455.00
$2,516.00
$2,578.00
$2,643.00
$2,709.00
$2,776.00
$2,843.00
$2,912.00
$2,986.00
$3,053.00
$3,120.00

$2,776.00
$2,845.00
$2,913.00
$2,989.00
$3,061.00
$3,138.00
$3,215.00
$3,294.00
$3,374.00
$3,450.00
$3,526.00

$2,079.00
$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,286.00
$2,337.00
$2,393.00
$2,443.00
$2,498.00
$2,553.00

$1,857.00
$1,895.00
$1,930.00
$1,965.00
$1,997.00
$2,038.00
$2,079.00
$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,203.00
$2,252.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

IRVINE CAMPUS - Cont.

6759

LIBRARY ASST IV

6760

LIBRARY ASST III

6761

LIBRARY ASST II

6762

LIBRARY ASST I

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7191

DATA PROC PROD
COORDINATO,PRIN

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7192

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR,
SR

7193

DATA PROC PROD COORDINATOR

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFTDIFFERENTIAL

EVENING

NIGHT

WKEND

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1

1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,656.00
$2,718.00
$2,778.00
$2,844.00
$2,908.00
$2,977.00
$3,051.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,255.00
$3,326.00

$2,337.00
$2,393.00
$2,443.00
$2,494.00
$2,548.00
$2,603.00
$2,656.00
$2,718.00
$2,778.00
$2,841.00
$2,903.00

$2,079.00
$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,286.00
$2,337.00
$2,393.00
$2,443.00
$2,498.00
$2,553.00

$1,857.00
$1,895.00
$1,930.00
$1,965.00
$1,997.00
$2,038.00
$2,079.00
$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,203.00
$2,252.00

$2,717.00

$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,978.00
$3,052.00
$3,115.00
$3,183.00
$3,259.00
$3,332.00
$3,406.00

$2,393.00

$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,547.00
$2,603.00
$2,657.00
$2,717.00
$2,777.00
$2,843.00
$2,907.00
$2,971.00

$2,118.00
$2,155.00
$2,198.00
$2,240.00
$2,287.00
$2,338.00
$2,393.00
$2,444.00
$2,495.00
$2,551.00
$2,607.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

CLERICAL AND ALLIED SERVICES UNIT - APPENDIX A

TITLE
CODE

TITLE NAME

STEP

MONTHLY

RATE

O
T
P

HOURLY $

SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL

EVENING NIGHT WKEND

IRVINE CAMPUS - Cont.

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7232

SURVEY WORKER, SR

LINKAGE GROUP 001

7233

SURVEY WORKER

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
5.5
6

$2,137.00
$2,176.00
$2,216.00
$2,256.00
$2,302.00
$2,350.00
$2,402.00
$2,458.00
$2,510.00
$2,566.00
$2,623.00

$1,849.00
$1,886.00
$1,922.00
$1,955.00
$1,988.00
$2,028.00
$2,069.00
$2,107.00
$2,145.00
$2,193.00
$2,242.00

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37
$0.37

