Metadata header 

This contract is provided by UC Berkeley's Institute of Industrial Relations Library (IIRL). The 
information provided is for noncommercial educational use only. It may have been reformatted 
from the original and some appendices or tables may be absent. Note that subsequent 
changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.             

For more information about the IIR Union Contracts Project, contact:
Lincoln Cushing, lcushing@library.berkeley.edu

IDnum

54

Language English

Country United States

State CA

Union AFT (American Federation of Teachers) AFL-CIO

Local

Local 4400, Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers

Librarians 
Teachers—postsecondary 

 Occupations Represented

Bargaining Agency Board of Trustees of the Cabrillo Community College District
Agency industrial classification (NAICS):
61 (Educational Services)

BeginYear 2001

EndYear

2004

Source

http://www.cabrillo.cc.ca.us/affiliate/ccft/Contract01_04/Contractmp.htm

Original_format HTML (multipart)
Notes

Contact

Maya Bendotoff, Director
(831) 464-2238, ccft@cruzio.com

Full text contract begins on following page.

Contents 
 
Articles 
 
1. Preamble 
2. Recognition 
3. District Rights 
4. Academic Freedom 
5. Nondiscrimination 
6. Effect of Agreement 
7. CCFT Rights and Organizational Security 
8. Safety Conditions and Work Environment 
9. Professional Growth and Development 
10. Leaves  
11. Workload 
12. Grievance Procedure 
13. Salary 
14. Health and Welfare Insurance Coverage 
15. Layoffs 
16. Adjunct Faculty 
17. Evaluation and Tenure 
18. Retirement 
19. Personnel Records 
20. Completion of Meet and Negotiation 
21. Duration of Agreement 
22. No Strike, Work Stoppage or Lockout 
23. Savings Provision 
24. Reopening of Negotiations and Specific Provisions  
 
Appendices (salary schedules are here) 
Side Letters of Agreement 

Article 1 
Preamble 

1.1 This is an Agreement by and between the Board of Trustees of the Cabrillo 
Community College District (hereinafter referred to as "District") and the Cabrillo 
College Federation of Teachers, Local 4400 CCFT/AFT (hereinafter referred to as 
"CCFT").  

1.2 Both parties to this agreement expect that it is a commitment leading to the 
enhancement of the excellence and prestige of Cabrillo College through the provision of 
quality education for the students and community served by the college.  

1.3 This agreement is entered into pursuant to Chapter 10.7, Sections 3540-3549.3 of the 
California Government Code.  

1.4 DEFINITION OF TERMS:  Unless expressly provided otherwise, the following 
definitions shall govern the interpretation and construction of this agreement.  

1.4.1 The "CCFT" means the Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers, 
Local 4400 CCFT/AFT.  

1.4.2 The "District" means the Board of Trustees of the Cabrillo 
Community College District.  

1.4.3 The "Governing Board" means the Board of Trustees of the Cabrillo 
Community College District.  

1.4.4 The "College" means Cabrillo College.  

1.4.5 The "fiscal year" runs from July 1 through June 30.  

1.4.6 The 175 day "academic year" runs from the beginning of Flex Week 
of Fall Semester through the end of Finals Week of Spring Semester and 
excludes intersession and summer session.  

1.4.7 The "academic calendar" is the calendar of teaching days, flex days, 
and final exam days in the academic year.  

1.4.8 A "bargaining unit member" is a nonmanagement, nonconfidential 
academic employee.  

1.4.9 "Contract member" means a probationary academic employee.  

1.4.10 "Temporary contract member" means any academic employee who 
is employed pursuant to Education Code Sections 87470, 87481, or 87482.  

1.4.11 "Regular unit member" means a tenured academic employee.  

1.4.12 "Adjunct faculty" means any academic employee who is employed 
pursuant to Education Code Sections 87478, 87480, or 87482.5 for no 
more than 60 percent of the annual load of scheduled duties of a full- time 
regular employee having comparable duties.  

1.4.13 An "adjunct instructor" is an adjunct member who is an instructor.  

1.4.14 A "standard scheduled class" is defined as a class requiring a 
minimum number of students taught at the same time in one classroom, 
and listed in the schedule of classes.  "Non-standard scheduled classes" 
include, but are not limited to, Learning Skills classes, Library 10 classes, 
Stroke Center classes, and open labs.  

1.5 The bargaining unit covered by this Agreement includes every employee of the 
District who is not designated by the Board as a confidential, classified, or management 
employee and who is employed by the Board in a position requiring minimum 
qualifications as established by AB1725.  

1.6 Printing and distribution of new Contracts and Supplements shall be completed 
within 90 days of final approval of a Contract or Supplement by the Governing Board.  
The Contract and Supplements shall be printed annually in the Faculty Resource Guide 
for distribution to all unit members, the Governing Board, and the college administrators.  

1.6.1 Additional copies of the Contract shall be printed on an annual basis 
as needed to insure distribution to all new unit members and new college 
administrators.  

1.6.2 A Supplement shall be printed and distributed each time there is a 
change in the Contract and shall be reprinted annually as needed for 
distribution to all unit members, the Governing Board and the college 
administrators.  

1.6.3 Each unit member shall be given a copy of the Contract and 
Supplement by the Personnel Office upon hire.  

1.6.4 The marginal costs of printing and other marginal costs associated 
with the preparation for distribution of the contract shall be born equally 
by the District and CCFT.  Marginal costs are those costs above and 
beyond the costs of printing and distributing the Faculty Resource Guide 
without the contract included.  

 

Article 2 

Recognition  

2.1 The District hereby recognizes that CCFT has been certified by the Public 
Employment Relations Board as the exclusive representative for the employees in the 
representation unit, which is composed of all academic employees excluding all 
employees identified by the Governing Board as management, supervisory or 
confidential. 

2.2 The District agrees that if subsequent to the agreement it creates any new academic 
positions, they shall be assigned to the bargaining unit, except those that are lawfully 
designated as management, confidential or supervisory. Disputes may be submitted to the 
PERB for resolution.  

 

 

Article 3 

District Rights 

3.1 The exercise of the powers, rights, authority, duties and responsibilities by the 
District, the adoption of policies, rules, regulations and practices in furtherance thereof, 
and the use of judgment and discretion in connection therewith, shall be limited only by 
the specific and express terms of this Contract, and then only to the extent such specific 
and express terms are in conformance with law.  

 

3.2 It is understood and agreed that the District retains all of its powers and authority to 
direct, manage and control to the full extent of the law, consistent with the provisions of 
the Education Code 

and the regulations of the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges. 
Included in, but not limited to, those duties and powers are the exclusive right to: 
determine its organization; direct the work of its employees; determine the times and 
hours of operation; determine the kinds and levels of services to be provided and the 
methods and means of providing them; establish its educational policies, goals and 
objectives; ensure the rights and educational opportunities of students; determine staffing 
patterns; determine the kinds of personnel required; maintain the efficiency of 

District operations; determine the curriculum; build, move or modify facilities; establish 
budget procedures and determine budgetary allocation; determine the methods of raising 
revenue; and take action on any matter in the event of an emergency caused by an act of 

God. In addition, the Board retains the right to hire, classify, assign, promote, reprimand, 
and terminate employees.  

 

3.3 The exercise by management of the rights and discretion as described herein shall not 
be subject to the grievance/arbitration procedure, except when the exercise of such rights 
conflicts with the specific terms and conditions of this Contract, state and federal laws, or 
the regulations of the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges. 

 

 

Article 4 

Academic Freedom 

4.1 Cabrillo College District recognizes that academic freedom provides a foundation for 
intellectual stimulation and development, and academic success in the teaching 
environment.  The District also recognizes 

that academic freedom is fundamental to the protection of teachers' and students' rights.  

 

4.2 Academic freedom encompasses the freedom to study, teach and express ideas, 
including unpopular or controversial ones, without censorship, political restraint or 
retribution.  Academic freedom allows for 

the free exchange of ideas in the conscientious pursuit of truth.  

 

4.3 Protecting academic freedom is the responsibility of the college community.  In a 
climate of openness and mutual respect, the college protects and encourages the exchange 
of ideas which are presented in 

the spirit of free and open dialogue.  

 

4.4 Employment by the District does not in any way restrict or limit the First Amendment 
right enjoyed by faculty as members of their communities.  Faculty members are free to 
speak and write publicly on any 

issue, as long as they do not indicate they are speaking for the institution.  

 

4.5 To this end, academic freedom shall be assured, subject to limitations imposed by law 
and by the academic standards of the college and the state.  

 

4.6 Alleged violations of this Article 4 shall be subject to Article 12, Grievance 
Procedure, as provided in this section.  

 

     4.6.1  A grievance may be initiated according to section s 12.1 through 12.4.1.4 
(through Level I -- Informal Resolution).  

 

     4.6.2  Level IA - Academic Freedom Review Committee:  If the grievant is not 
satisfied with the decision at Level I, the grievant may within ten (10) days of receipt of 
the decision at Level I appeal 

     the decision on the appropriate form to the Academic Freedom Review Committee 
("AFRC"), via timely delivery to the Vice President, Instruction, with a copy to the 
immediate supervisor(s) 

     involved.  The statements shall include a copy of the original grievance and a concise 
statement of the reasons for the appeal.    

 

     4.6.3  The AFRC shall be comprised of the Academic Senate President/designee, 
CCFT Grievance Officer, a CCFT unit member selected by the grievant, Division 
Chair/designee, Vice President, 

     Instruction/designee, and Dean of Student Services/designee.  

 

     4.6.4  Within ten (10) days of receipt of the appeal, the AFRC shall meet to consider 
the appeal.  The AFRC shall make every effort to issue its report within this ten (10) day 
period.  In any event, 

     the AFRC's report shall be issued to the grievant and any immediate supervisor(s 
involved within twenty (20) days of receipt of the appeal.  

 

     4.6.5  If the grievant is not satisfied with the resolution of the grievance as 
recommended in the AFRC report, the grievant may within ten (10) days of receipt of the 
report appeal on the 

     appropriate form to the Superintendent/President, Level II (section 12.4.2) of the 
Grievance Procedure shall thereafter be followed, provided that a copy of the AFRC 
report shall be included in the 

     appeal to the Superintendent/President (and to the Governing Board if the grievant 
appeals the Level II decision under section 12.4.3.7). 

 

 

Article 5 

Nondiscrimination 

5.1 Except as provided by the California Education and Government Codes, the District 
and the CCFT agree not to discriminate against any unit member or District employee on 
the basis of race, 

color, creed, national origin, religion, sex, age, sexual orientation, partisan or electoral 
political activities/affiliations, marital status, physical handicap or exercise of 
Constitutional rights.  The District and 

the CCFT further agree that it is the intent of the Cabrillo Community College District 
and the Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers to follow the procedures as presented in 
the Cabrillo College 

Sexual Harassment and Affirmative Action policies. 

 

 

Article 6 

Effect of Agreement 

6.1 In the event a conflict exists between the specific provisions contained in this 
Agreement and District practices, policies, procedures and State laws to the extent 
permitted by State law, the 

provisions of the Agreement prevail. 

 

 

Article 7 

CCFT Rights and Organizational Security 

7.1 Representatives of the CCFT shall have the right to use the college facilities and 
equipment at the site at reasonable hours for CCFT business when such facilities are not 
otherwise in use, and 

subject to the following conditions:  

 

     7.1.1 The CCFT representative follows standard facilities or equipment use 
procedures for the reservation and use of facilities or equipment.  

 

     7.1.2 The requested activities or use will not interfere or interrupt normal District or 
campus operations.  

 

     7.1.3 The CCFT shall reimburse the District for any materials consumed while using 
District equipment.  

 

7.2 The CCFT may use non-classroom campus bulletin board spaces subject to the 
following conditions:  

 

     7.2.1 All posting shall contain the date of publication and the identification of the 
document as a CCFT sponsored publication.  

 

     7.2.2 Authorized CCFT representatives shall have the primary responsibility of 
posting or removing their materials on the bulletin boards.  

 

7.3 The CCFT may place material in the mailboxes of unit members provided such 
material is accurately identified as originating from the CCFT, CFT, or AFT.  

 

7.4 The CCFT may use the District mail, telephone, and FAX services subject to the 
reasonable rules and regulations of the District.  CCFT will pay the marginal costs of 
such usage.  

 

7.5 A mutually agreed upon number of designated representatives of the District and the 
CCFT shall meet on a mutually agreed upon date, place and time, at least once every 
month, for the purposes 

of reviewing the administration of the Agreement in force and attempting to resolve any 
other problems that may arise. Each party may submit an agenda for discussion.  

 

7.6 Reassigned Time for CCFT  

 

     7.6.1 Upon written request of the CCFT, prior to the due date for printing the class 
schedule for any semester, the District shall grant annually 0.6 of Full Time Equivalent 
(FTE) 

     reassigned time, with pay, to be distributed by the CCFT for work including, but not 
limited to contract required committee work, grievance representation, negotiations, 
arbitration, and 

     CCFT representation at meetings and conferences related to official CCFT business. 
In addition, the CCFT may purchase up to a total of 0.4 FTE reassigned time at the 
adjunct salary 

     schedule rate for the above purposes.  

 

     7.6.2 The reassigned time shall be distributed in such a manner so as to allow for unit 
pay replacement for all cases.  

 

7.7 Upon request of the CCFT, the District's Principal Contract Administrator or designee 
shall provide the information needed for contract administration and negotiations to the 
extent required as 

part of the District's good faith obligation to CCFT.  

 

7.8 The District shall provide the name and mailing address for each new person who is 
employed and who becomes a unit member within 10 days of hire. CCFT shall provide 
the District with an 

appropriate form.  

 

7.9 Organizational Security  

 

     7.9.1 Check Off  

 

     CCFT will have the sole and exclusive right to have membership dues and service fees 
deducted from unit members in the bargaining unit by the District.  The District shall, 
upon appropriate written authorization 

     from any unit member, deduct and make appropriate remittance for CCFT dues, 
COPE contributions, charitable donations, or other plans or programs approved by CCFT 
and the District.  The District will pay to 

     the designated payee within fifteen (15) working days of the deduction all sums so 
deducted.  

 

          7.9.1.1 Upon hire, each new employee in the bargaining unit will be informed by 
the Personnel Department of his/her choice to join CCFT or to pay a service fee at the 

          appropriate rate from the CCFT dues and fee schedule.  

 

     7.9.2 Dues Deductions  

 

          7.9.2.1 The District will deduct dues monthly, in accordance with the CCFT dues 
schedule, from the wages of all unit members for whom a dues authorization form has 
been submitted to the 

          District.  However, should an employee choose to pay dues by lump sum directly 
to CCFT, the employee will submit a paid receipt from CCFT to the District personnel 
office, specifying the time 

          period covered by the payment.  Payroll deductions for dues will not be made for 
that period.  Such direct payments may be made only for one full academic year, except 
for adjunct employees who 

          may make direct payments by the semester.  

 

          7.9.2.2 An authorization to deduct dues shall remain in effect until it is revoked in 
writing by the unit member.  

 

     7.9.3 Service Fee  

 

          7.9.3.1 CCFT and the District agree that each employee in the bargaining unit 
should contribute toward the cost of administration of this Agreement by CCFT and for 
the 

          representation of unit members in the bargaining unit.  

 

          7.9.3.2 The District shall make payroll deductions for the appropriate service fee 
from the CCFT fee schedule for any member of the bargaining unit who is not a member 
of CCFT as of (date of 

          election).  However, should an employee choose to pay service fees by lump sum 
directly to CCFT, the employee will submit a paid receipt from CCFT to the District 
personnel office, specifying 

          the time period covered by the payment.  Payroll deductions for fees will not be 
made for that period.  Such direct payments may be made only for one full academic 
year, except for adjunct 

          employees who may make direct payments by the semester.    

 

          7.9.3.3 In the event that a unit member revokes a dues authorization in writing, the 
District will immediately begin payroll deduction for the appropriate service fee from the 
CCFT fee schedule.  

          However, should an employee choose to pay service fees by lump sum directly to 
CCFT, the employee will submit a paid receipt from CCFT to the District personnel 
office, specifying the time 

          period covered by the payment.  Payroll deductions for fees will not be made for 
that period.  Such direct payments may be made only for one full academic year, except 
for adjunct employees who 

          may make direct payments by the semester.  

 

     7.9.4 Religious Objection  

 

     Any unit member covered by this Agreement who is a member of a religious body 
whose traditional tenets or teachings include objections to joining or financially 
supporting unit member organizations shall not 

     be required to join, maintain membership in, or financially support any unit member 
organization as a condition of employment.  Once such unit member has submitted 
evidence to CCFT which proves that he/she 

     sincerely holds such beliefs, that unit member will be required, in lieu of service fee, 
to pay by payroll deduction sums equal to such service fee to the non-religious, non-labor 
Cabrillo College Foundation, which 

     is a charitable fund exempt from taxation under Section 401(c)(3) of Title 26 of the 
Internal Revenue Code.  Evidence of such belief and a completed payroll deduction 
authorization form shall be submitted to 

     CCFT within thirty (30) days of employment.  

 

     7.9.5 Remittance Notification by the District to CCFT  

 

     For each payroll period, the District shall include with all remittances to the CCFT, 
two lists of unit members for whom deductions have been made.  One list shall include 
deductions for dues and fees and indicate 

     the amounts withheld from each unit member's salary and the second list shall include 
religious objection deductions and indicate the amounts withheld from each unit 
member's salary.  

 

     7.9.6 CCFT agrees to furnish any reasonable and necessary information needed by the 
District to fulfill the provisions of this Article.  

 

     7.9.7 CCFT agrees to pay to the District all reasonable legal fees and legal costs 
incurred in defending against any court action and/or administrative action challenging 
the legality or constitutionality of the 

     agency fee provisions of this Agreement or their implementation.  CCFT shall have 
the exclusive rights to decide or determine whether any such action or proceeding 
referred to above shall or shall not be 

     compromised, resisted, defended, tried or appealed.  

 

     7.9.8 The District shall put into effect any new or changed employee-generated CCFT 
deductions by the next payroll.  In the event of a change in the CCFT dues or fees 
schedule, CCFT will provide the necessary 

     information to the District fifteen (15) working days before the next published 
monthly payroll cutoff date.  

 

     7.9.9 The District will notify CCFT in writing within five (5) working days of any 
change in CCFT deductions initiated by an employee or the District.  

 

7.10 CCFT maintains the right to consult on CCFT representation on college committees.  

 

7.11 The District and CCFT will attempt to continue the general past practice of 
scheduling the negotiations outside times when CCFT representatives are scheduled for 
teaching.  However, both parties understand that this 

practice cannot be implemented with any precision.  

 

 

Article 8 

Safety Conditions and Work Environment 

8.1 The District shall make every reasonable effort to provide conditions for a safe and 
healthy work environment.  Unit members shall cooperate with management in 
maintaining appropriate safety practices in all facilities. 

 

8.2 Unit members will report in writing to their immediate supervisor, any conditions 
which come to their attention that may pose a threat to the safety of any person associated 
with the District.  In the case of emergencies, such 

reports do not have to be in writing. 

 

     8.2.1 The District shall investigate such reports and take appropriate actions to correct 
the condition found to be unsafe or unhealthy in a timely way. Standards established by 
State law 

     shall prevail. 

 

     8.2.2 The unit member making the report shall be notified in a timely manner in 
writing of the investigation and actions taken in 8.2.1. 

 

8.3 In scheduling classes for indoor and outdoor rooms or activity areas, consideration 
shall be given to safety conditions, capacity of available space, appropriate equipment 
and study stations. 

 

8.4 In the event a unit member and supervisor disagree on the conditions specified in 8.3 
above, the unit member may report, in writing, the grounds of the disagreement along 
with recommendations to 

the Vice President, Instruction.  

 

     8.4.1  Upon receiving this report, the Vice President, Instruction or designee shall 
respond in writing to the report. 

 

     8.4.2 The written explanation shall be returned to the unit member in a timely way. 

 

8.5 Contract and regular unit members required to hold office hours shall be provided 
with appropriate office space.  Such space may be shared pursuant to 8.6. 

 

8.6 Adjunct unit members are required to hold pro rata office hours.  Effective spring 
semester 1996, Division Chairs will notify adjunct faculty of designated office space 
before the first week of 

classes each semester.  Contract faculty are required to allow adjunct unit members joint 
use of any office space provided by 8.5 above. 

 

 

Article 9 

Professional Growth and Development 

This article defines Sabbatical Leave, Flexible Calendar, and Professional Growth and 
Development activities. 

 

9.1 Sabbatical Leaves 

 

The District may grant a sabbatical leave, which will benefit the College and the students 
of the District. The purposes for which a sabbatical leave may be granted are as follows: 

 

(a)  Scholarly or creative endeavors in the  discipline being taught; 

(b)  Improvement of skills in the discipline being taught; 

(c)  Retraining in a new discipline; 

(d)  Improvement of teaching skills; 

(e)  Development of programs and curriculum. 

 

     9.1.1 Criteria 

 

     The proposed plan must significantly relate to the college mission, the bargaining unit 
member's assignment and should improve professional competence. 

 

     9.1.2 Sabbatical Leave Categories 

 

          9.1.2.1 Study in residence at an accredited university or college. Proposed course 
work shall be planned to achieve specific objectives. 

 

          9.1.2.2 A special project or research problem planned with specific objectives. 

 

          9.1.2.3 Work experience program to study in schools maintained by a business or 
industry for crafts people or technical workers to obtain work experience in the 
vocational 

          field in which the employee works. Ideally, the specific school or job offer shall be 
submitted with the proposal program, but may be submitted before the beginning of the 

          leave. 

 

          9.1.2.4 Travel 

 

          Employees on sabbatical leave for travel shall remain in travel status for the 
majority of the days of each semester of leave granted. Applicants shall submit a detailed 

          statement of the proposed itinerary demonstrating specific objectives related to the 
area of the institutional assignment. 

 

          9.1.2.5 Curriculum Planning 

 

          A sabbatical leave for curriculum planning may be granted after the applicant has 
submitted a proposal demonstrating the need for revision of existing courses or 
development 

          of new courses. Leaves granted in connection with curriculum planning may 
include non-paid part-time teaching if that teaching is integral to the proposed curriculum 

          development. 

 

          9.1.2.6 Other 

 

          A program may be designed to meet multiple objectives such as study, research or 
special project, work experience, travel, and/or curriculum planning. An applicant shall 

          submit specific objectives and relationship with the institutional assignment. 

 

     9.1.3 Eligibility 

 

          9.1.3.1 Preceding the granting of the leave, the applicant must have completed 
twelve semesters of continuous service in the District in an academic position.  A year of 
service is defined as a 

          contract for more than 60% of the academic semester requirement. 

 

          9.1.3.2 Leave of absence for other purposes shall not be deemed a break in the 
continuity of service, nor shall the period of such absence count toward the years of 
service 

          requirement. 

 

          9.1.3.3 Service under a nationally recognized fellowship or foundation approved by 
the State Board of Education, or a teacher exchange, for a period of not more than one 

          year, for research, teaching, or lecturing, shall not be deemed a break in the 
continuity of service, and the period of absence shall be included in computing the years 
of 

          service required. 

 

     9.1.4 Length of Sabbatical Leave 

 

     A sabbatical leave may be granted for a full academic year or for one semester. After 
consultation with and approval from the appropriate administrator and the Vice President 
of 

     Instruction, a full year's leave may be taken in two consecutive semesters of two 
different academic years if the applicant can show a need for such an arrangement and 
the affected 

     department and division concur. Such approval must be granted prior to the 
submission of the proposal to the Sabbatical Leave Review Board pursuant to Section 
9.1.8.1.1. 

 

     9.1.5 Funding 

 

          9.1.5.1 Contributions 

 

               9.1.5.1.1 Bargaining unit members going on leave will contribute to the cost of 
their replacements through reductions in salary and benefits during the time that 

               they are on leave. 

 

               9.1.5.1.2 The unit member's contribution shall be the difference between his/her 
regular salary and benefits and his/her sabbatical salary and benefits. 

 

               9.1.5.1.3 These reductions will be prorated over the whole year in the case of 
half year leaves. The schedule of these reductions appears in Section 9.1.5.8. 

 

          9.1.5.2 District Contribution 

 

          The District shall contribute $79,852 to support the Sabbatical Leave Program for 
applications made in 2000-01. This amount shall be increased each year thereafter by the 
same increment as the 

          contract faculty salary schedule was increased in the prior year. The cost of the 
leave, including the replacement, shall be determined at the time of the approval of the 
leave by the Governing 

          Board.  Should the calculations at that time determine that the full amount for the 
fiscal year not be expended, the residual amount, rounded to the nearest one hundred 
dollars, will be credited to 

          the subsequent year's allocation. 

 

               9.1.5.2.1 A special fund for sabbaticals will be established in the amount of 
$49,500 for the life of the contract (2001-2004).  The purpose of this special fund is to 
augment the 

               District’s contribution for sabbaticals for increased costs on a one-time basis 
during the life of the contract. 

 

               9.1.5.2.2 Regardless of the placement on the leave priority list (9.1.7.1), if an 
applicant’s going on leave would result in a net monetary gain for the District, the 
applicant will be 

               permitted to go at the salary determined by the Contract.  The salary savings 
will accrue to the sabbatical fund.  If these savings are large enough, they may permit the 
highest 

               ranking unfunded applicant to go on leave. 

 

               9.1.5.2.3 Those applicants on the list for whom funding is not available will be 
informed in writing of their position and will be offered the opportunity to go on leave by 
accepting a 

               yearly salary less than that specified in the Contract.  The applicant must agree 
to this procedure in writing.  This salary will be calculated so that there is an exact 
balance between 

               the total cost of the leave, including replacement salaries, and the cost to the 
District had the applicant not gone on leave.  Current procedures, such as including fringe 
benefits and 

               using the average cost of a teaching unit, shall be used in this calculation. 

 

          9.1.5.3 Replacement costs of unit members going on leave shall be based on 
information from the Instruction Office as to the type of replacement necessary for 
maintenance 

          of programs in the divisions and departments affected. 

 

          9.1.5.4 Should the cost of the Sabbatical program for a given year as noted in 
9.1.5.3, exceed the contributions as noted in 9.1.5.1 and 9.1.5, the Sabbatical Leave 
Review 

          Board shall make the final recommendation of leaves such that the final costs do 
not exceed the contributions. 

 

          9.1.5.5 The method of payment shall follow the regular payroll procedure with 
compensation based on the salary schedule in effect during the period of the leave. 

          Compensation shall be calculated on the individual bargaining unit member's 
placement on the salary schedule for the year the leave is taken (step and column) and 
doctoral 

          stipend, if any. All other stipends and/or special salary considerations are 
specifically excluded. 

 

          9.1.5.6 If the bargaining unit member has been on less than a full-time contract for 
the previous academic year, the sabbatical leave salary shall be calculated on the basis of 

          the applicant's contract for the majority of the six years prior to sabbatical. 

 

          9.1.5.7 Bargaining unit members on sabbatical leave shall not be compensated for 
any instruction they may perform at the college during the term of their sabbatical leave. 

 

          9.1.5.8 Bargaining unit members on sabbatical leave shall be compensated 
according to the following schedule:  the percentages shown indicate the percentage of 
the full year's salary and benefits 

          that shall be paid to the applicant during the leave year, whether the leave is for a 
full year or for one semester. 

 

               After six years of service: 

 

                    Full year:  60%  

                    Half year:  80% 

 

               After seven years of service: 

 

                    Full year:  65% 

                    Half year:  85% 

 

               After eight years of service: 

 

                    Full year:  70% 

                    Half year:  90% 

 

     9.1.6 Service After Sabbatical Leave 

 

          9.1.6.1 The District requires service amounting to twice the term of the leave, 
immediately following the leave, except under certain conditions provided by the 
Education Code.  Either a faithful 

          performance bond or a Sabbatical Leave Agreement (Appendix T), approved by 
resolution of the Governing Board, must be executed as a condition of the leave. 

 

          9.1.6.2 At the expiration of the sabbatical leave, the bargaining unit member shall, 
unless otherwise agreed to, be placed in a position equivalent to that held prior to the 
leave. 

          However, under no circumstances shall the returnee be entitled to seniority status 
or rights greater than had the employee been in regular service. 

 

     9.1.7 District Requirements 

 

     9.1.7.1 The number of bargaining unit members absent for the sabbatical leave in a 
semester shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of faculty. To the greatest extent possible, 
the sabbatical 

     leaves approved for a given academic year shall be equally distributed between 
semesters, and in no academic year shall the number of leaves in each semester vary by 
more than twenty 

     percent (20%). The Sabbatical Leave Review Board shall consult with individuals and 
with divisions to achieve this number and to achieve a balance between the fall and 
spring semesters. 

     If this consultation does not achieve a fall/spring semester balance and no more than 
the maximum number of allowable leaves per semester, the Sabbatical Leave Review 
Board may 

     establish leave priorities on the basis first, of leave seniority; second, seniority at the 
college; and finally, by lot. 

 

     9.1.8 Application Procedure Requirements 

 

          9.1.8.1 Mandatory Flex Week Workshop 

 

          Eligible bargaining unit members who intend to apply for Sabbatical Leave must 
attend a Flex Week Session on How to Write a Sabbatical Leave Proposal in the fall of 
the academic year during 

          which the proposal will be submitted.  The chair of the SLRB will forward the list 
of unit members attending the workshop to the appropriate supervising administrator and 
vice president to inform 

          them of potential sabbaticants    

 

               9.1.8.1.1 Faculty who do not attend the Flex Week session, or do not have 
written approval from the chair of the SLRB not to attend, will be ineligible to submit a 
sabbatical proposal 

               for that year.  Approval to not attend requires a written request to the SLRB 
chair explaining the reasons for not attending.  Email is acceptable.  The applicant must 
attend a make-up 

               workshop session.  Unless there is an emergency, approval to not attend the 
Flex Week session must be prior to the Flex Week session. 

 

          9.1.8.2 A proposed plan for the Sabbatical Leave shall be submitted in writing to 
the appropriate supervising administrator and vice president no later than October 15 of 
the 

          academic year prior to the year for which the leave is requested. The plan shall 
provide sufficient information for the evaluation pursuant to Section 9.1 (purpose), 9.1.1 

          (criteria), and 9.1.2 (categories). 

 

          9.1.8.3 At least 20 calendar days prior to the October 15 deadline, the applicant 
must meet with the Division Chair or appropriate administrator to discuss the proposal. 
The 

          supervising administrator must attach to the submitted proposal the written 
approval or disapproval which must state how the proposal meets, or fails to meet, the 
criteria 

          listed in 9.1.1 herein. 

 

     9.1.9 Sabbatical Leave Review Board 

 

          9.1.9.1 Composition 

 

          The Sabbatical Leave Review Board shall consist of the Faculty Senate President, 
two (2) bargaining members named by the Faculty Senate, three (3) bargaining unit 

          members named by the CCFT, and six (6) administrators, of whom one is the Vice 
President, Instruction, and three (3) are Division Chairs named by the Vice President, 

          Instruction. No applicant shall be a member of the committee.  

 

          9.1.9.2 Board Procedures 

 

               9.1.9.2.1 The Board shall schedule its meetings so as to effectively coordinate 
with the deadlines for sabbatical applications (Section 9.1.8), sabbatical reports 

               (Section 9.1.12) and applications for alternative credit (Appendix S). 

 

               9.1.9.2.2 The Board shall review and approve applications as to form, content, 
adherence to purpose (Section 9.1), criteria (Section 9.1.1), categories (Section 

               9.1.2), and District requirements (Section 9.1.7). 

 

                    The first meeting of each year shall include: 

                    (a) a review of Sabbatical Leave policy, as well as the Board’s procedures; 
and 

                    (b) a review of the precious year’s results and a report by the Chair on the 
current state of the sabbatical program. 

 

               9.1.9.2.3  If the application is not approved for reasons specified above, the 
Board shall return it to the applicant with specific directions.  Applications must be 
resubmitted by a date 

               determined by the Board.  Failure to resubmit an application shall be grounds 
for denial of leave. 

 

               9.1.9.2.4 At its next meeting the Board shall:  

 

                    (a) consider leave projects that have been resubmitted; 

                    (b) review matters related to District requirements and to act on any of these 
matters left unresolved after consultation with the affected divisions or 

                    departments; and 

                    (c) determine the communication necessary to inform concerned persons of 
the disposition of matters in (a) and (b) above. 

 

               9.1.9.2.5 Before the close of the fall semester, the chairperson of the Sabbatical 
Leave Review Board shall convene a meeting of the chairperson, the Faculty 

               Senate President, a CCFT representative, and the Vice President of Instruction. 
They will certify the final leave list and notify all applicants. Should the financing 

               formula requirements of the District outlined above, require any leave 
postponements, those persons with lowest priority will be chosen according to: first, 
leave 

               seniority; second, college seniority; and finally, by lot. The chairperson will 
notify those persons of such postponements. Should leave withdrawals or other 

               circumstances later affect the status of applicants whose leaves have been 
postponed on account of the restrictions outlined in this Article, the Vice President of 

               Instruction will notify them at the earliest possible time. 

 

               9.1.9.2.6 Administrative Review 

 

               The committee chairperson shall forward the committee's final 
recommendations to the Vice President of Instruction in writing. The Vice President of 
Instruction 

               shall submit recommendations along with the committee's recommendations to 
the Superintendent/President. The Superintendent/President shall review the 

               recommendations and forward the applications to the Governing Board with 
such recommendations as believed to be in keeping with the educational and 

               financial needs of the District. If the recommendations of the 
Superintendent/President differ from those of the Sabbatical Leave Review Board, the 

               Superintendent/President shall meet with the chair of the Sabbatical Leave 
Review Board prior to the January Board meeting to explain the reasons for the 

               changes. 

 

               9.1.9.2.7 Approval by Governing Board 

 

               The Governing Board shall act on the recommendations at the January Board 
Meeting. Approval of the sabbatical leave applications shall be at the sole 

               discretion of the Governing Board. 

 

               9.1.9.2.8 Notification 

 

               The Superintendent/President shall notify the applicant in writing as soon as the 
Governing Board has acted on the proposal. If the Governing Board rejects the 

               applicant's request, the applicant shall be informed of the rejection and the 
reasons for rejection of the application in writing. 

 

               9.1.9.2.9 The Sabbatical Leave Review Board shall meet early in the spring 
semester to select a chairperson for the following year and to prepare and certify 

               the eligibility list for the next year's application cycle. The eligibility list shall 
be certified and distributed to the faculty prior to May 15 each year, and each unit 

               member shall be included on the list with an eligibility number. 

 

          9.1.10 Withdrawal, Postponement and "Passing" Leaves 

 

               9.1.10.1 In the event that a leave is postponed for administrative reasons such as 
those described in 9.1.9.2.5, or for any other reason beyond the practical 

               control of the applicant, the leave entitlement will advance normally for the 
following year; unless the applicant is at the highest step, the applicant will remain at 

               that step until the leave is granted, or until the applicant passes and returns to 
the regular cycle. 

 

               9.1.10.2 Unit members who have had their sabbatical leave plan approved and 
had their leave postponed for administrative reasons (9.1.9.2.5), shall submit the 

               proposal or an updated proposal for the following year. Approval by the 
committee of the unit member's postponed plan shall be automatic. Any revisions to the 

               plan will be processed as in 9.1.11. 

 

               9.1.10.3 A bargaining unit member who reaches the eighth year leave step and 
passes the leave shall revert to the sixth year stipend schedule, and shall rise again 
through the steps, 

               continuing to rise and fall until the leave is finally taken.  Unit members who 
have had their sabbatical leave plan approved and then had that leave postponed for 
administrative 

               reasons, such as those described in 9.1.9.2.5, will not lose any ranking toward 
their next sabbatical leave because of the postponement.  Specifically, the count toward 
the unit 

               member's next sabbatical leave shall begin with (and include) the postponed 
period. Such postponement shall be mutually agreed upon in writing prior to the 
postponement. 

 

               9.1.10.4 Special circumstances, such as eclipses of the sun, centennials, and 
jubilees may entitle a bargaining unit member to retain highest stipend rank until a 

               leave to be a participant at such an event is taken. However, such events will not 
entitle an applicant to higher standing on the stipend schedule if the applicant is 

               not yet at the eighth step. Applications for such postponement of entitlement 
should be made during the year of eligibility, specifying the date of the intended 

               leave in the project proposal. The Sabbatical Leave Review Board by full vote 
will determine eligibility for such postponements. 

 

          9.1.11 Revisions of Approved Sabbatical Leave 

 

          Prior to any revision of the sabbatical project, written approval of the Vice-
President of Instruction (VPI) and notification of the chair of the SLRB is required.  
Failure to comply with the provisions 

          of this section shall result in SLRB review as described in section 9.1.14.1. 

 

          9.1.12 Reports 

 

          Upon completion of a sabbatical leave, the unit member shall submit a written 
report to the Vice-President of Instruction (VPI) prior to November 15 of the year of 
return from leave. The report shall 

          be of a recognized professional standard appropriate to the discipline.  The report 
shall consist of a description of the satisfactorily completed, agreed-upon sabbatical 
project including any 

          approved changes, the original proposal, and the Agreement (Appendix T).  The 
report shall be approved and signed by the unit member's Division Chair or appropriate 
administrator. The report is 

          not equivalent to the project itself, but is a description of the project and how the 
project was accomplished in accordance with the approved sabbatical proposal.  If the 
purpose of the leave was 

          academic study, official transcripts or an equivalent official record shall be 
included. Any publications, manuscripts, works of art or music, computer software, 
photographs, instructional materials 

          or other such items produced as part of the leave shall be made available to the 
Sabbatical Leave Review Board (SLRB).  The SLRB shall review and evaluate 
professional development/sabbatical 

          leave reports.  After reviewing the report, the SLRB shall either recommend 
approval to the President or request further information or revision and resubmission of 
the report from the employee.  If 

          the revision does not satisfy the SLRB's objections, or if the SLRB determines that 
the unit member failed to satisfactorily complete the agreed-upon project, the SLRB (1) 
may deny or defer 

          eligibility for future leaves and (2) shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 
9.1.14.1. 

 

          9.1.13 Effect Upon Salary, Benefits and Retirement 

 

               9.1.13.1 Each semester of sabbatical leave shall constitute a half year's service 
for salary increment purposes. 

 

               9.1.13.2 Sick leave will neither accumulate nor be charged against the unit 
member. 

 

               9.1.13.3 While on sabbatical leave, unit members will be eligible to receive 
health and welfare benefits. The District's contributions will be prorated in 

               accordance with Section 9.1.5.8 of this Article. 

 

               9.1.13.4 A unit member who has had sabbatical leave may, at the unit member's 
option, pay into the State Teachers' Retirement System the amount required by 

               STRS to receive full-time credit. 

 

          9.1.14 Failure to Fulfill Professional Development/Sabbatical Leave Obligation 

 

               9.1.14.1 Failure to Complete Project and Submit Satisfactory Report 

 

                    9.1.14.1.1 If the SLRB decides that the employee failed to complete the 
project or failed to submit a satisfactory report, the SLRB shall compose a written 
assessment 

                    of the sabbaticant's project and report.  This assessment shall specify the 
nature and extent of the deficiencies as well as the nature and extent of those portions of 

                    the project that have been satisfactorily completed.  The written assessment 
may contain dissenting viewpoints. The chair of the SLRB, the VPI, accompanied by one 

                    other member, shall meet with the President of the college to present, 
explain, and discuss the SLRB assessment and the sabbaticant's report. 

 

                    9.1.14.1.2 Upon receipt of an assessment from the SLRB, as outlined in 
section 9.1.14.1.1 above, the President of the college, before making a final decision, 
shall meet 

                    with the employee.  The President, at his/her discretion, may decide to 
require the employee to compensate the District for a portion or all of the sabbatical 

                    compensation received.  Such decision shall be in writing, with specific 
reasons therefore, and a copy shall be provided to the employee. 

 

                    9.1.14.1.3 The employee shall be provided copies of all documents which are 
considered by the District in reaching any decisions or 

                    recommendations under this article, prior to the issuance of any decisions or 
recommendations. 

 

               9.1.14.2 Failure to Render Services Upon Return from Leave 

 

                    9.1.14.2.1 In the event that the unit member fails to render service amounting 
to twice the term of the leave following his/her return from sabbatical 

                    leave, the unit member shall reimburse the District the same proportion of 
the total sabbatical compensation received as the proportion of the 

                    amount of time which was not served bears to the total amount of time 
agreed upon. 

 

               9.1.14.3 Failure to Render Service due to Physical or Mental Disability 

 

                    9.1.14.3.1 Failure of a unit member to satisfactorily meet the requirements of 
this article shall not result in forfeiture of the bond or reimbursement 

                    to the District if such failure is due to the unit member's death or it is 
certified by a physician designated by or satisfactory to the District that failure 

                    was due to the unit member's bona fide physical or mental disability. 

 

9.2 Flexible Calendar Scheduling 

 

     9.2.1 The academic calendar shall consist of 175 days of instruction. Within 
requirements of State law, a specific number of instruction days can be designated as 
possible staff 

     development days for unit members. If the District decides to use the flexible calendar 
format, the number and scheduling of the staff development days for each academic year 
shall be 

     negotiated by the District and the CCFT. 

 

     9.2.2 Staff Development Committee 

 

          9.2.2.1 Procedures and timelines for the use of staff development days shall be 
prepared by the Staff Development Committee. 

 

          9.2.2.2 The Staff Development Committee shall consist of: 

 

          (a)  the Vice President of Instruction or designee 

          (b)  three (3) unit members selected by the Faculty Senate 

          (c)  three (3) unit members selected by the CCFT 

          (d)  three Division Chairs 

          (e)  one SEIU member 

          (f)  one Student Senate member. 

 

     9.2.3 Flex Staff Development Plan 

 

          9.2.3.1 Unit members shall present a written agreement on the appropriate Staff 
Development Flex Agreement form to the appropriate administrator describing how the 
unit 

          member intends to utilize the staff development days. Each plan must be in 
accordance with the State law regulating the flexible calendar. 

 

          9.2.3.2 The appropriate administrator shall review and sign each unit member's 
Staff Development Flex Agreement form. In the event that the proposed plan is not 
approved by the appropriate 

          administrator, the appropriate administrator shall notify the unit member within ten 
(10) days. A unit member may, within ten days of notification of non-approval, appeal 
the decision in writing to 

          the Vice President of Instruction.  The Vice President of Instruction or designee 
shall evaluate the plan, and within ten (10) days, either approve the plan or explain in 
writing why the plan is not 

          acceptable. 

 

          9.2.3.3 With approval of the appropriate administrator, a unit member may modify 
or amend his/her plan for scheduled on-campus activities at any time prior to completion 
of those scheduled 

          on-campus activities.  Should the appropriate administrator not approve the 
changes or amendments, the unit member may appeal to the Vice President of 
Instruction, whose decision shall be final. 

 

          9.2.3.4 A prorated number of flex staff development days shall be computed for 
adjunct unit members and instructors on reduced contract, partial contract, and sabbatical 

          leave assignment. 

 

          9.2.3.5 Flex staff development days are regular duty days for unit members with all 
of the rights and responsibilities thereof. 

 

9.3 Professional Growth and Development Funds 

 

     9.3.1 All regular and contract unit members shall be entitled to $150 per fiscal year to 
cover all or a portion of the cost of attending professional meetings, conferences, or other 
activities 

     approved by the appropriate administrator which directly relate to the unit member’s 
assignment. 

 

     9.3.2 With prior approval of the appropriate administrator, unit members may assign 
their conference funds to another unit member and the District may add to the fund. 

 

     9.3.3 At the end of each fiscal year, unused Professional Growth and Development 
funds shall be carried over in the Division budget for allocation to Professional Growth 
and 

     Development Funds activities defined in Section 9.3.1 the next fiscal year. (See Side 
Letter of Agreement, Attachment I.) 

 

9.4 Intellectual Property Rights 

 

See Side Letter of Agreemet 2001-02.2 for the CCFT/District agreement regarding 
Intellectual Property Rights. 

 

 

10.1 General Provisions  

 

Article 10 

Leaves 

     10.1.1 All paid leaves granted pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall be 
credited as service for step advancement on the salary schedule, and to the extent 
permitted by law, shall 

     be credited toward retirement in the same proportion as salary received.  

 

     10.1.2 The Board of Trustees may extend any leave granted pursuant to this Article.  

 

     10.1.3 Upon return from a leave granted pursuant to this Article, a bargaining unit 
member shall be assigned to an equivalent position for which the unit member is 
qualified. The District shall attempt to return the 

     unit member to the same assignment held at the beginning of the leave if that 
assignment is available. Each unit member returning from leave may make other 
arrangements with the District either prior to the leave 

     or prior to returning from the leave.  

 

     10.1.4 Leaves provided in this section apply to all contract and regular unit members 
in proportion to the number of teaching units for which they are employed. Adjunct 
members are entitled to the leaves 

     provided in Sections 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6, 10.8, 10.9, and 10.14 in proportion to the 
number of teaching units for which they are employed, and to the leave in Section 10.2.2, 
at the rate defined in that section.  

 

     10.1.5 To the extent permitted by law, unit members on unpaid leaves may continue to 
participate in District-mandated health and welfare benefits (excluding State Teachers' 
Retirement 

     System and income protection plans) by arranging with the District to pre-pay 
appropriate premiums for such health and welfare benefits to the District.  

 

10.2 Personal Illness and Injury Leave  

 

     10.2.1 Regular and Contract Employees  

 

     Full-time regular and contract unit members shall be entitled to ten (10) days leave 
with full pay for each academic year of service for purposes of personal illness or injury 
and/or in the event a member of his/her 

     immediate family (as defined in Section 10.4.2 herein), suffers from a catastrophic 
illness or injury.  Regular and contract unit members who work less than full time shall 
be entitled to that ratio of the ten (10) days 

     leave as their instructional assignment bears to a full-time assignment.  

 

          10.2.1.1 Children’s Center Teachers  

 

          Children’s Center Teachers shall be entitled to eleven (11) days leave with full pay 
for each academic year of service for purposes of personal illness or injury and/or in the 
event a member of 

          his/her immediate family (as defined in Section 10.4.2 herein), suffers from a 
catastrophic illness or injury.  Children’s Center Teachers who work less than full time 
shall be entitled to that ratio of 

          the eleven (11) days leave as their instructional assignment bears to a full-time 
assignment.  

 

     10.2.2 Adjunct Employees  

 

     Adjunct unit members shall be entitled to leave with full pay for purposes of personal 
injury or illness at the rate of one third (1/3) of a day per unit taught by the unit member 
per semester. 

     Leave for adjunct unit members is deducted hour for lecture equivalent hour of class 
time missed due to personal illness or injury (see Appendix A) and/or in the event a 
member of his/her 

     immediate family (as defined in Section 10.4.2 herein), suffers from a catastrophic 
illness or injury. For purposes of this Agreement, a day shall consist of eight (8) hours.  

 

     10.2.3. Extended Illness and Injury Leave  

 

     Additional non-accumulated extended illness leave shall be available, provided that 
the provisions of Section 10.2.5 below are met. The total amount of extended leave shall 
not exceed 

     five (5) months and ten (10) work days, when counting together all accumulated sick 
leave and extended illness leave. The amount deducted for extended leave purposes from 
the unit 

     member's salary shall be the amount actually paid a substitute employee employed to 
fill the position during the leave, or if no substitute is employed, the amount which would 
have been 

     paid to a substitute.  

 

     10.2.4 Accumulation of Leave  

 

     If a unit member does not utilize the full amount of leave as authorized in Section 
10.2.1 and 10.2.2 above in any academic year, the amount not utilized shall be 
accumulated from year to 

     year.  

 

     10.2.5 Verification of Illness or Injury  

 

     Upon request by District management, after six consecutive days of absence or upon 
evidence giving rise to a reasonable belief of abuse of sick leave, a unit member shall be 
required to 

     present a certificate signed by an appropriate certified medical authority verifying the 
illness or injury of the unit member and/or his/her immediate family member.  

 

     10.2.6 Notification of Absence   

 

     To permit the District time to secure substitute service, a unit member shall notify the 
District of an absence as soon as practicable prior to the start of the unit member's 
assignment. The 

     absent unit member shall first attempt to notify the appropriate Division Chair. If the 
unit member is unable to contact the Division Chair or secretary, the unit member shall 
telephone the 

     District's absence notification central number and leave a message regarding the unit 
member's absence. Because the absence notification line is only monitored during regular 
office hours, 

     a unit member notifying the District of an absence after 5 p.m. for a class that evening 
should call the Evening Administrator. The unit member shall furnish directions for a 
substitute.  

 

     10.2.7 Deduction from Leave  

 

     A unit member who misses any scheduled duties due to personal and/or immediate 
family member illness or injury shall have leave deducted from his/her accumulated leave 
in increments 

     according to Appendix A or B, where eight (8) hours deducted leave is equivalent to 
one day.  

 

     10.2.8 Notification of Return  

 

     A unit member shall make a reasonable attempt to notify the manager or designee of 
the unit member's intent to return or not to return the following day, prior to the end of 
the college 

     business day.  

 

     10.2.9 Completion of Absence Forms  

 

     Each unit member shall complete the District absence form (Appendix C or D) and 
submit it to the appropriate manager or designee upon return from an absence for illness 
or personal 

     injury under Section 10.2. Whenever possible, unit members taking personal necessity 
leave under Section 10.3, or bereavement leave under Section 10.4, shall complete the 
absence 

     form prior to the absence.  

 

     10.2.10 The District shall provide each member of the bargaining unit an Annual 
Statement of Accrued Sick Leave as of the end of an academic year on or before the first 
day of the next 

     academic year.  

 

10.3 Personal Necessity Leave  

 

10.3.1 Leave which is credited under Sections 10.2.1 and 10.2.2 of this Article may be 
used at the unit member's election, for the purposes of personal necessity, provided that 
use of such personal 

necessity leave does not exceed six (6) days in any academic year.  

 

     10.3.2 For purposes of this provision, personal necessity shall be limited to:  

 

          (a)  Death or serious illness of a member the unit member's immediate family, as 
defined in Section 10.4.2  herein; 

          (b)  An accident which is unforeseen involving the unit member's person or 
property, or the person or property of a unit member's immediate family;  

          (c)  Illness or accident to the unit member's immediate family; and 

          (d)  Appointments for the purpose of conducting personal legal affairs or personal 
financial transactions that cannot be conducted outside of working hours; or 

          (e)  Other personal necessities which are approved by the Division Chair or 
appropriate administrator, provided that under no circumstances shall leave be available 
for purposes of extending a 

          holiday or vacation period or a recreational or social activity.  

 

     10.3.3 Except in cases of emergency, before the utilization of personal necessity leave, 
a unit member shall obtain prior written approval from the appropriate supervisor, except 
in cases 

     (a), (b) or (c) in Section 10.3.2. Should the circumstances outlined in (a), (b) or (c) 
arise, the unit member shall make every effort to comply with District procedures to 
enable the District 

     to secure substitute service.  

 

     10.3.4 Deduction from Leave  

 

     A unit member who misses any scheduled duties due to personal necessity shall have 
leave deducted from his/her accumulated leave in increments according to Appendix A or 
B, where 

     eight (8) hours deducted leave is equivalent to one day.  

 

     10.3.5 Completion of Absence Forms  

 

     Each unit member shall complete the District Absence Form (Appendix C or D) and 
submit it to the appropriate supervisor or designee upon return from an absence for 
personal necessity 

     under Section 10.3.  

 

10.4 Bereavement Leave 

 

     10.4.1 At the request of the employee, s/he will be granted up to five (5) days leave 
with full pay with no deduction from sick leave in the event of the death of any member 
of the employee’s immediate family.  

     Additional sick leave may be granted at the discretion of the appropriate administrator.  

 

     10.4.2 For purposes of this provision, an immediate family member shall be limited to 
mother, father, grandmother, grandfather, or a grandchild of the employee or of the 
spouse or 

     principal domestic partner of the employee, and the spouse or principal domestic 
partner, son, son-in-law, daughter, daughter-in-law, brother or sister of the employee, any 
relative living 

     in the immediate household of the employee, or any person having a similar close 
relationship with the employee which the appropriate administrator may accept as 
qualifying for 

     bereavement leave.  

 

     10.4.3 Additional leave with full compensation may be granted by the District in case 
of demonstrated need.  

 

10.5 Individual Responsibility Leave  

 

     10.5.1 The District shall grant up to two (2) days Individual Responsibility Leave, 
without loss of salary or deduction from sick leave for the observance of major religious 
holidays of the 

     unit member's faith or family responsibilities that cannot be scheduled outside 
working hours.  

 

     10.5.2 Deduction from Leave  

 

     A unit member who misses any scheduled duties due to Individual Responsibility 
Leave shall have leave deducted according to Appendix A or B, where eight (8) hours 
deducted leave is 

     equivalent to one day.  

 

     10.5.3 Accumulation of Individual Responsibility Leave  

 

     Individual Responsibility Leave shall not accumulate from year to year.  

 

     10.5.4 Before the utilization of Individual Responsibility Leave, except in cases of 
emergency, a unit member shall obtain prior written approval from the appropriate 
supervisor. The unit 

     member shall make every effort to comply with District procedures to enable the 
District to secure substitute service.  

 

10.6 Leave for Pregnancy Disability  

 

     10.6.1 Unit members are entitled to use sick leave as set forth in Sections 10.2.1, 
10.2.2, and 10.2.3 for disabilities caused or contributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, 
childbirth, and 

     recovery therefrom on the same terms and conditions governing leaves of absence 
from other illness or medical disability. The length of such disability leave, including the 
date on which the 

     leave shall commence and the date on which the duties are to be resumed, shall be 
determined by the unit member and the unit member's physician.  

 

     10.6.2  Unit members are entitled to leave without pay or other benefits for disabilities 
because of pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or recovery therefrom when sick leave as 
set forth in Sections 10.2.1, 10.2.2 and 

     10.2.3 has been exhausted. The date on which the unit member shall resume duties 
shall be determined by the unit member on leave and the unit member's physician.  

 

10.7 Leave Without Pay for Child Bearing Preparation and Child Rearing  

 

     10.7.1 Upon request by the unit member and approval of the Governing Board, leave 
without pay or other benefits shall be granted to a unit member for preparation for child 
bearing and 

     for child rearing. Use of child bearing preparation leave shall not preclude subsequent 
use of pregnancy disability leave.  

 

     10.7.2 The unit member shall request such leave as soon as practicable, but no less 
than sixty (60) calendar days prior to the date on which the leave is to begin, except in 
cases of 

     emergencies. Such request shall be in writing and shall include a statement as to the 
dates the unit member wishes to begin and end the leave without pay.  

 

     10.7.3 The determination as to the date on which the leave shall begin and the duration 
of such leave shall be made in consultation with the Superintendent/President or 
designee, taking 

     into consideration the scheduling and replacement problems of the District and the 
needs and interests of the unit member.  

 

     10.7.4 The duration of such leave shall consist of no more than twelve (12) 
consecutive months. An extension of leave may be granted, not to exceed an additional 
twelve (12) months.  

 

     10.7.5 The unit member is not entitled to the use of any accrued sick leave or other 
paid leave while such employee is on child bearing leave or leave for child rearing, unless 
the illness or 

     disability is related to a pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or recovery therefrom.  

 

     10.7.6 If a unit member is on leave for child bearing preparation or child rearing and 
in the event of a miscarriage or death of a child subsequent to childbirth, the unit member 
may request 

     an immediate assignment to a unit position. If there is a vacancy for which a unit 
member is qualified, the District shall assign the unit member to a position as soon as 
practicable.  

 

10.8 Industrial Accident Leave  

 

     10.8.1 Unit members will be entitled to industrial accident leave according to the 
provisions in Education Code Section 87787 for personal injury or illness which has 
qualified for workers' 

     compensation under the provisions of the State Workers' Compensation Insurance 
Program.  

 

     10.8.2  In any one fiscal year, allowable leave shall be for not less than sixty (60) days 
during which the College is required to be in session or when the employee would 
otherwise have been performing work for 

     the District.  

 

     10.8.3 Pursuant to the statutory provisions of the state workers' compensation system, 
the District has the right to have the unit member examined by a physician designated by 
the District 

     at the District's expense, to assist in determining the length of time the unit member 
will be temporarily unable to perform assigned duties, and the degree to which a 
disability is attributable 

     to the injury involved.  

 

     10.8.4 When an industrial accident or illness leave overlaps into the next fiscal year, 
the unit member shall be entitled to only the amount of unused leave due him or her for 
the same illness 

     or injury.  

 

     10.8.5 Allowable leave shall not accumulate from year to year.  

 

     10.8.6 Industrial accident or illness leave shall commence on the first day of absence.  

 

     10.8.7 For any days of absence from duty as a result of the same industrial accident, 
the unit member will receive a check from the appropriate insurance fund which would 
make the total 

     compensation from both insurance and District sources equal 100% of the amount the 
unit member would have received as salary had there been no industrial illness or 
accident.  

 

10.9 Judicial Leave  

 

     10.9.1 A unit member shall be provided leave for regularly called jury duty and to 
appear as a witness in court, other than as a litigant, for reasons not brought about 
through the 

     connivance or misconduct of the unit member. The unit member shall submit a written 
notification to the appropriate supervisor as soon as the unit member is aware of a request 
for 

     appearance.  

 

     10.9.2 The unit member, while serving on jury duty, will receive pay in the amount of 
the difference between the unit member's regular earnings and any amount received for 
jury service, 

     exclusive of any mileage reimbursement.  

 

     10.9.3 Paid judicial leave shall not be provided for unit members who serve as paid 
expert witnesses.  

 

10.10 Exchange Teaching Leave  

 

     10.10.1 An exchange leave is a leave granted to permit an employee to serve as an 
exchange professional in any foreign country or in any state, territory, or possession of 
the United 

     States.  

 

     10.10.2 Exchange leaves of absence may be granted by the Board of Trustees to unit 
members who meet the following requirements:  

 

          (a)  The unit member must have regular status in the District on the effective date 
of the leave; and  

          (b)  An exchange agreement must be signed by the employees and the districts 
concerned.  

 

     10.10.3 The exchange is for one (1) year, unless extended for one (1) additional year 
by consent of the Governing Board and the unit member.  

 

     10.10.4 During the exchange leave, the unit member will be paid by the District at the 
unit member's regular rate of pay, and the other instructor will be paid by their 
educational institution.  

 

     10.10.5 At the completion of any exchange, the unit member shall return to duty in the 
District and shall serve full time for at least two (2) consecutive years before being 
eligible for 

     another exchange assignment.  

 

     10.10.6 Credit for service on exchange leave counts toward advancement on the salary 
schedule as if such service were given in the District, provided that the unit member 
served the 

     same number of days in the exchange position as would have been required to be 
served at the District.  

 

     10.10.7 Service on an exchange leave grants credit toward retirement. If retirement 
contributions are not deducted from compensation, the unit member must personally 
arrange for 

     payment of required contributions.  

 

     10.10.8 If the unit member wishes to request an extension of the exchange leave, such 
request shall be made not later than two (2) months prior to the expiration of the leave.  

 

10.11 Military Leave  

 

     10.11.1 Military leave shall be provided in accordance with statutory provisions.  

 

10.12 Family and Medical Leave Policy  

 

     10.12.1 The District shall grant family care leaves in accordance with State and 
Federal laws and regulations (see Appendix X).  Family care leave for the principal 
domestic partner is provided according to the 

     conditions of coverage as established by the Santa Cruz County Schools Health 
Insurance Group.  

 

10.13 Other Leaves Without Pay  

 

     10.13.1 Upon recommendation of the Superintendent/President and approval by the 
Board of Trustees, leave without compensation, salary increment, tenure and professional 
development (sabbatical) leave 

     credit may be granted to contract and regular unit members for a period of up to one 
(1) year. Upon approval of the District, such leave may be extended one (1) year. Unpaid 
leaves may include but are not limited 

     to the following:  (a) government or legislative service; (b) recuperation and rest; (c) 
travel, study, professional or education pursuits; (d) work experience; and (e) any other 
reason deemed sufficiently important 

     by the District.  

 

     10.13.2 The application for and granting of such leaves of absence shall be in writing. 
In addition, a unit member on such leave shall notify the District Personnel Office by the 
ninth (9th) 

     week of the final semester of the leave as to an intent to return to the employment of 
the District.  

 

     10.13.3 Approved leaves of a semester or less shall not constitute a break in service 
for the purpose of salary schedule advancement.  

 

     10.13.4 Partial Unpaid Leave of Absence  

 

          10.13.4.1 Regular unit members may take a partial unpaid leave by accepting less 
than a full-time assignment. In such leaves regular unit members shall continue to fulfill 
the 

          appropriate pro rata share of regular full-time duties. Written request for such leave 
shall be submitted to the Superintendent/ President three (3) months in advance. With the 

          mutual consent of the District and the bargaining unit member, this time line may 
be waived. Partial unpaid leaves may be extended with District approval.  

 

          10.13.4.2 Partial Unpaid Leaves of One Year or Less  

 

          A unit member on a partial unpaid leave of one (1) year or less may return to a full-
time assignment at the beginning of a semester, provided that the District is notified prior 
to 

          the preparation of the schedule for that semester, in no event less than three (3) 
months before the semester begins.  

 

          10.13.4.3 Partial Unpaid Leaves Exceeding One Year  

 

          A unit member who desires a partial leave for longer than one (1) year may pursue 
one of the following options:  

 

               10.13.4.3.1 If the unit member desires a reduced assignment for a specific 
period of time which exceeds one (1) year, prior to the beginning of the leave, the unit 
member and the 

               District may mutually agree to the terms of the partial unpaid leave, including 
the length of the leave and the full-time assignment to which the unit member will return.   

 

          10.13.4.4 Unit members on partial unpaid leaves shall receive benefits on a pro rata 
basis of a full-time contract, or may receive full benefits by paying the difference.   

 

          10.13.4.5 Unit members on partial leave without pay shall receive personal illness, 
personal necessity, bereavement, and individual responsibility leaves on a pro rata basis 
of 

          full-time contract.  

 

10.14 Donations for Catastrophic Sick Leave  

 

Definition:  Any bargaining unit member may donate, in one (1) hour increments, 
accumulated and unused sick leave to another bargaining unit member when that 
bargaining unit member or a member of his/her family suffers 

from a catastrophic illness or injury, and that bargaining unit member has exhausted all 
fully paid leaves, as provided in this section.  

 

      10.14.1 Eligibility for Using Donated Time  

 

          (a) The member must have exhausted all accrued sick leave (Section 10.2.4).  

 

          (b) The member must be off work (not actually rendering service to the District) 
for purposes of caring for a seriously ill family member, or due to a personal serious 
health condition.  Family and 

          Medical Leave Policy definitions as contained in Appendix X to the Agreement, 
shall apply to this section only.  In addition, principal domestic partners shall qualify as 
family members for 

          purposes of this section.  

 

     10.14.2 Members donating sick leave must retain a minimum of eighty (80) hours of 
accrued sick leave.  Recipients may neither accept nor use more than the number of hours 
needed to provide fully paid sick 

     leave for 175 days.  Recipient members must work for six (6) continuous months prior 
to renewed eligibility for further catastrophic illness contributions beyond 175 days.  

 

     10.14.3 Procedure for Donation of Hours  

 

          (a) CCFT shall inform members on a case-by-case basis when the need for donated 
time arises.  

 

          (b) CCFT shall be responsible for collecting donated time.  Members shall 
authorize donations in writing, signed and dated.  

 

          (c) CCFT shall compile the list of donated time in order of donations received and 
submit the list to the District along with supporting written authorizations.  (Once the first 
round list is received by 

          the District, no more donations will be added.  In the event more donations are 
needed, the process shall repeat itself, subject to Section 10.14.2 above.)  

 

          (d) The District will deduct sick leave from donors, according to the list and credit 
it to the member on leave.  

 

          (e) The total hours donated by each member shall be used before moving to the 
next donor on the list.  

 

          (f) Donor members on the list whose hours were not used will have their original 
authorization forms returned to them as a confirmation that their donated hours were not 
used.  

 

          (g) At the completion of the Catastrophic Leave, the District will return to CCFT 
the original list indicating which donor members’ hours were used.  

 

 

Article 11 

Workload 

In addition to the workload described pursuant to Article 11, all contract, temporary 
contract, and regular faculty members are expected to participate in professional 
responsibilities outside the classroom, such as attending 

division and department meetings, participating in program planning, participating on 
search and selection committees, serving on evaluation teams, and participating in 
college governance as needed.  These requirements may 

be scheduled on any day considered to be part of the academic calendar (academic 
calendar defined in 1.4.7).  

 

11.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS - CLASSROOM INSTRUCTORS  

 

     11.1.1 Class Size   

 

     The District reserves the right to cancel any class that does not meet the minimum 
requirements.  Maximum class size shall be increased by no more than three (3) students 
per class, with the beginning of the 

     Spring Semester of the 1995-96 academic year.  This increase will exclude classes 
where there are facility restrictions or limitations and/or where the class size would 
violate regulations affecting the safety of staff 

     or students.  Maximum class size shall be increased by no more than one (1) student 
per class, with the beginning of the Spring Semester of the 1997-98 academic year, 
excluding classes with restrictions or 

     limitations as noted above.  

 

     11.1.2 Teaching Load - Contract or Regular  

 

          11.1.2.1 A standard full-time teaching load shall be thirty (30) teaching units per 
year, except as noted in 11.3.1 and in the English department where current practice 
requires 31 or 32 teaching units 

          per year.  A unit member's load may range from twenty-nine (29) teaching units to 
thirty (30) teaching units per year and still be considered a full load.  

 

          11.1.2.2 The standard full teaching load shall consist of two (2) semesters of 
thirteen (13) to seventeen (17) teaching units each.  

 

          11.1.2.3 No unit member shall teach less than thirteen (13) or more than seventeen 
(17) teaching units per semester except by mutual consent, or unless fewer than thirteen 

          (13) teaching units are required to complete thirty (30) teaching units per year.  

 

          11.1.2.4 A unit member may meet part of her/his load by teaching during summer 
sessions or at any other time of the year whenever the CCFT and the District agree that 

          such teaching is required by the needs of the particular program. 

 

               11.1.2.4.1 Summer session can be part of a regular assignment for year-round 
Nursing programs.  An assigned unit member willbe compensated by a corresponding 
reduction 

               in teaching time from the 175 contract days of instruction.  

 

      11.1.3 Office Hours  

 

          1.1.3.1 Definition  

 

          An office hour is defined as a fifty (50) minute period of time outside of a regularly 
scheduled teaching assignment when a unit member is required to be available for student 

          consultation and present in her/his office or in an instructional area; i.e., classroom 
or laboratory related to her/his teaching assignment.  

 

          11.1.3.2 Unit members shall schedule office hours with the concurrence of the 
Division Chair or appropriate supervisor.  

 

          11.1.3.3  Number of Hours  

 

               11.1.3.3.1 Except as noted below, a full-time contract/regular unit member shall 
schedule and hold five (5) office hours per week, at least one each day during which a 
teaching 

               assignment is scheduled for that employee.  In the case where a contract/regular 
unit member is scheduled to teach less than five (5) days per week, the five required 
office hours per 

               week shall be held over a minimum of four (4) days per week.  In the case 
where a unit member teaches an evening class as part of his/her load on the same day as 
he/she teaches a 

               day class, office hours shall be scheduled that are contiguous to both the day 
and evening offerings. Therefore, such a unit member may hold two office hours on one 
day, one near 

               the daytime class(es) and the other near the evening class(es). Evening is 
defined as a class that starts at or after 5 p.m. A unit member who teaches an off-campus 
class as part of a 

               regular load will hold an office hour contiguous to the off-campus offering.  
Pursuant to this article, faculty may not be required to hold an office hour five (5) days 
per week.  

               However, contract/regular faculty must attend division, department and shared 
governance meetings which can be scheduled Monday through Friday.  

 

               11.1.3.3.2 Regular and contract unit members who work less than full-time and 
adjunct unit members shall schedule and hold the same ratio of office hours as 

               their instructional assignment bears to a full time assignment.  

 

          11.1.3.4 Posting  

 

          All contract/regular and adjunct classroom instructors shall post their schedule of 
office hours on, or adjacent to, their office doors or in the division office.  If unit 
members are not in their offices 

          during office hours, they shall post where they will be in an instructional area. A 
copy of each unit member's class and office hour schedule shall be submitted to the 
appropriate administrator no 

          later than the end of the first teaching week of each semester on forms provided by 
the District.  

 

          11.1.3.5 Rescheduling   

 

          With advance approval of the appropriate administrator, unit members may 
reschedule office hours as necessary. Such changes shall be posted on their office doors 
with their 

          schedule of office hours, and a copy shall be given to the appropriate administrator.  

 

     11.1.4 No unit member shall be required to have fewer than twelve (12) hours from 
the end of one day's work to the beginning of the next.  

 

     11.1.5 Scheduling of classes  

 

          11.1.5.1 Each regular and contract unit member shall prepare a proposed schedule 
of her/his duties and classes for the upcoming semester in accordance with departmental 

          decisions regarding offerings and schedules, and present it to her/his appropriate 
administrator at least two weeks in advance of the division's scheduling deadline. The 

          schedule shall be in accordance with the standard workload provisions.  

 

          11.1.5.2 The appropriate administrator shall make the final schedule offerings and 
assignments after reviewing the proposed schedules.  

 

          11.1.5.3 In the event the appropriate administrator determines that a regular or 
contract unit member's proposed schedule must be modified, the appropriate 
administrator 

          shall meet with the unit member and explain the modification. A new schedule for 
the unit member shall be worked out by the appropriate administrator.  

 

11.2 Semester Load Factor  

 

     11.2.1 The "Semester Load Factor" establishes the relationship between teaching units 
and clock hours per week for given activities of unit members.  

 

     11.2.2 Semester Load Factor Table  

 

          11.2.2.1 Each hour of lecture, recitation or problem solving, or discussion:  

 

               1.00 Teaching Unit  

 

          11.2.2.2 Each hour of ECE practicum or workshop:  

 

               0.33 Teaching Unit  

 

          11.2.2.3 Each hour of physical education activity:  

 

               0.75 Teaching Unit  

 

          11.2.2.4 Each hour of laboratory instruction (excluding science labs as defined in 
Article 11.2.2.5) or studio art taught by the instructor:  

 

               0.75 Teaching Unit  

 

          11.2.2.5 Each hour of science lab classes as listed:  

 

               0.80 Teaching Unit  

 

                    Anthropology 1L 

                    Astronomy 8A, 8B, 8C, 9A, 9B, 9C  

                    Biology 1A, 1B, 1C, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11A, 11B, 11C, 13AL, 21A 

                    Chemistry 1A, 1B, 2, 5, 10, 12AL, 12BL, 30A, 30B  

                    Engineering 15, 45 (3 lab hours each)  

                    Geography 1L 

                    Geology 10, 20 

                    Horticulture 1A, 1B 

                    Meteorology 1L 

                    Oceanography 10 

                    Physics 2A, 2B, 4A, 4B, 4C, 10L, 11 

                    Psychology 2  

 

          11.2.2.6 Each hour of dental hygiene clinic:  

 

               0.75 Teaching Unit  

 

          11.2.2.7 Each hour of nursing clinic as listed:  

 

               0.80 Teaching Unit  

 

                    Nursing 81, 82, 83, 84  

 

          11.2.2.8 Composition Factor  

 

          Each hour of English composition class or Spanish 5A and 5B requiring 6,000 or 
more written, corrected, original words in the class during the semester:  

 

               1.33 Teaching Unit  

 

          11.2.2.9 Each scheduled hour of rehearsal, lecture, or critique in performance in 
dance, theater arts, and music:  

 

               1.00 Teaching Unit  

               (No performance class may equal more than six (6) teaching units, regardless of 
the number of hours per week spent in rehearsal.)  

 

               11.2.2.9.1 Each scheduled arranged hour of music performance classes:  

 

                    .25 Teaching Unit  

 

          11.2.2.10 Writing Factor  

 

          Each hour of courses requiring a minimum of 4,000 words of critical analytic 
written work per semester (essay examinations and/or major papers), assigned, read and 

          evaluated by the unit member. The written work must be the primary mode for 
evaluating students' performance. Such courses shall be so designated in the course 
schedule 

          and college catalog. (See Appendix E - Writing Factor Program):  

 

               1.25 Teaching Unit  

 

          Writing Factor classes:  

 

          ECE 31/131, 32  

          Anthropology 2, 6, 7, 8, 9A, 9B, 9C, 11, 16 

          History 2A, 2B, 4A, 4B, 14, 15, 16C, 17A, 17B, 18, 19A, 19B, 19C, 20A-Z, 21A, 
21B, 29A, 29B, 39A-Z, 39B  

          Philosophy 39, 49 

          Political Science 1, 5  

 

          11.2.2.11 Portfolio Evaluation and Norming  

 

          Unit members assigned to perform English 100, 255 and 290 portfolio evaluation 
and norming shall be compensated for each hour of portfolio evaluation and norming at 
the rate of $25.00 per hour.  

          The unit member assigned to coordinate English 100, 255 and 290 portfolio 
evaluation and norming shall be compensated $250 per semester in addition to the $25 
per hour for portfolio evaluation 

          and norming.  

 

          11.2.2.12 Each hour of art history lecture based on intensive use of slides:  

 

               1.25 Teaching Unit 

               "Slide-factor" classes are not eligible to receive the large class factor.  

 

          11.2.2.13 Large Class Factor  

 

          Each hour of a lecture class exceeding sixty (60) students at census:  

 

               1.25 Teaching Unit  

 

          Each hour of lecture class exceeding ninety (90) students at census:  

 

               1.50 Teaching Unit  

 

          Each hour of lecture class exceeding 120 students at census:  

 

               1.75 Teaching Unit  

 

          Each hour of lecture class exceeding 150 students at census:  

 

               2.0 Teaching Unit  

 

          A unit member may agree to waive the class size factors in 11.2.2.13 of this article 
in return for the provision of mutually agreed student assistance adequate to cover the 

          increased burden of such classes.  

 

          11.2.2.14 A unit member teaching discussion (X) sections only, of a lecture 
discussion course shall, in addition to receiving one teaching unit for each hour of 
discussion (X) section taught, 

          receive 0.33 teaching unit for each hour of lecture in that course attended per week.  
(X) section (and the associated lecture section) classes are not eligible to receive the large 
class factor.  This 

          article is limited to ECE and Nursing sections only.  

 

          11.2.2.15 Distance Education  

 

               11.2.2.15.1 Telecourse:  A course taught with licensed broadcast video and 
associated material that may be supplemented with additional assignments created by the 
instructor.  

               Faculty assigned to teach telecourses will receive the same faculty load credit as 
the faculty would receive if this course were taught in a traditional method. The 
maximum enrollment 

               is 150.  Faculty will be required to maintain regular effective contact with 
students.  The definition of regular effective contact between instructor and students 
includes group or 

               individual meetings, orientation and review sessions, supplemental seminar or 
study sessions, field trips, library workshops, telephone contact, correspondence, voice 
mail, e-mail, 

               or other activities. Regular effective contact is an academic and professional 
matter pursuant to Title 5, Section 53200.  

 

               11.2.2.15.2 Interactive Video Course:  A course taught synchronously at 
different sites connected by electronic media through which students and instructor can 
communicate.  The 

               workload for interactive video courses will be the same as for courses taught in 
a regular classroom.  

 

               11.2.2.15.3 Online Course:  A course primarily delivered online.  

 

                    11.2.2.15.3.1 Maximum Class Size:   

 

                    The first and second time a unit member teaches a particular course online, 
the maximum class size for the online course will be 75% of the standard maximum class 

                    size established for the course.  (Effective for the life of this contract.)  

 

               11.2.2.15.4 Office Hours:  Unit members teaching distance education courses 
may elect to fulfill their office hour requirement for the distance education course in an 
alternative 

               distance mode away from the office.  

 

          11.2.2.16 Interdisciplinary Classes  

 

          Classes that combine at least two disciplines in one setting, explore a subject from 
a variety of views, and involve the work of at least two classroom instructors.  

 

               11.2.2.16.1 Team Taught Courses:  One course taught by more than one 
instructor.  

 

                    11.2.2.16.1.1 Each hour of lecture; 1 Teaching Unit  

 

                    11.2.2.16.1.2 Each hour attendance;1/3 Teaching Unit  

 

                    11.2.2.16.1.3 Coordination;1 Teaching Unit to be shared between instructors 
team teaching  

 

               11.2.2.16.2 Linked Courses:  Two or more courses with overlapping themes 
offered in the same semester and students must enroll in each of the courses.  Assigned 
faculty work 

               together outside of class time to coordinate course materials, i.e., syllabi, 
assignments and exams.  

 

                    11.2.2.16.2.1 Each unit member teaching a linked course will receive the 
same faculty load credit as the faculty would receive if this course was 

                    taught in a traditional method, plus each receives one additional teaching unit 
for coordination.  

 

               11.2.2.16.3 Linked Courses with a Colloquium:  If students are required to 
enroll in a one-unit colloquium course associated with the linked courses, all faculty 
teaching the linked 

               courses are required to team teach the colloquium.   

 

                    11.2.2.16.3.1 Each unit member teaching a linked course with a colloquium 
will receive teaching units for the linked course according to Article 

                    11.2.2.16.2.1 and for team teaching the colloquium according to Article 
11.2.2.16.1.  

 

          11.2.2.17 Unit members approved to develop an interdisciplinary course will be 
compensated for one semester as follows:  

 

               one unit for developing a one-unit class;  

 

               two units for developing a two-unit class;  

 

               unit members developing a class of three or more units will receive six (6) units 
total to be split among all the instructors.  

 

11.3 Special Load Factors  

 

     11.3.1 A regular load in physical education shall not consist of more than nine (9) 
classes.  

 

     11.3.2 The head coaches of football, men's basketball, and women's basketball, shall 
each receive nine (9) teaching units for such coaching.  

 

     11.3.3 Effective the 2001-02 academic year, head coaches and the assistant football 
coach will receive a stipend of $1,000 per year.  The stipend shall be increased each 
subsequent year by the percentage 

     increased applied to the contract/regular salary schedule specified in Section 13.1.  

 

11.4 Special Load Considerations  

 

     11.4.1 Art Studio   

 

     Art studio classes shall each have a maximum enrollment of twenty-eight (28) 
students per class at registration, unless there are facility restrictions or limitations and/or 
where the class size 

     would violate regulations affecting the safety of the staff or students. A unit member 
may, at his/her own discretion, add up to two (2) additional students.  

 

     11.4.2 English  

 

     English classes shall have a maximum enrollment of thirty-four (34) students at 
registration. A unit member may, at his/her own discretion, add additional students up to 
36 per class. The 

     maximum enrollment in English classes with the composition factor, ENGL 255, 100, 
1A, 1B, 1C, 1D, 2, ESL 10 and 20, shall be 29 students; a unit member may, at his/her 
own 

     discretion, add additional students up to 31 per class.  

 

     11.4.3 Foreign Language  

 

     Foreign language classes shall have a maximum enrollment of thirty (30) students per 
class at registration. A unit member may, at his/her own discretion, add up to two (2) 
additional students.   

 

     11.4.4 Special Studies  

 

     A unit member may teach special studies, whether for individual students or for small 
groups, for which she/he assumes normal grading and record keeping responsibilities.  
Compensation is based at the rate of 

     one/fifteenth (1/15) of a teaching unit at the adjunct pay rate for each special studies 
student unit.  Special studies student units may be cumulative summer, fall, and spring of 
one academic year.  The instructor 

     shall furnish a copy of the final grade sheet to the appropriate Division Chair by the 
published date that grades are due to Admissions and Records. Special studies units will 
not be compensated if claimed after 

     June 30th.  

 

     11.4.5 Cooperative Work Experience  

 

     A unit member teaching cooperative work experience shall be paid at the unit pay rate 
based on eight students equaling one lecture hour equivalency.  

 

     11.4.6 Workbook Based Library Courses (Library 10 and Library 15C)  

 

     A unit member teaching a workbook based library course shall be compensated at .8 
teaching units for each section assigned.  

 

11.5 Academic Specialists  

 

     11.5.1 Academic Specialists include Counselors, Librarians, Health Services Nurses, 
and Other Academic Specialists as defined in Article 11.5.5.  

 

          11.5.1.1 Hours/Teaching Units  

 

          Faculty employed as contract/regular Academic Specialists shall work thirty-six 
(36) hours per week, up to 5 hours of which may be scheduled for professional activities.  
Adjunct and overload 

          assignments shall be based on teaching units.  Each teaching unit (TU) is equal to 
two and two-fifths (2.4 hours) of work per week per semester.  The conversion of 
teaching units to hours is 

          specified in Side Letters, Attachment II, Table III.  Adjunct and overload 
Academic Specialist units shall be paid according to the Adjunct Academic Specialist 
salary schedule.  

 

          11.5.1.2 Academic Specialists assigned to teach a standard scheduled class, as 
defined in Article 1, as part of the unit member's contract assignment shall receive one 
(1) 

          hour of preparation time for each teaching unit of instruction.  

 

          11.5.1.3 Academic Specialists shall post his/her work schedule adjacent to or on 
his/her office door.  

 

     11.5.2 Counselors  

 

          11.5.2.1 Description  

 

          Faculty employed as counselors in the Counseling Division, EOPS and Disabled 
Student Services, shall work thirty- six (36) hours per week; 31 hours of counseling plus 
five (5) additional 

          scheduled hours for professional activities.  

 

          11.5.2.2 A counselor and the appropriate administrator may distribute duty days 
that are different from the normal 175-day calendar year.  

 

          11.5.2.3 Except for voluntary overload, all contract regular counselors assigned to 
perform duties on any day in addition to the unit member's contract days of service, as 

          provided in this contract, shall be compensated at the contract daily rate. The 
contract daily rate is determined by dividing the unit member's annual salary by one 
hundred 

          seventy-five (175).  

 

          11.5.2.4 Each counselor shall post his/her work schedule adjacent to or on his/her 
office door.  

 

     11.5.3 Librarians  

 

          11.5.3.1 Faculty employed as librarians shall work thirty- six (36) hours of library 
work per week.  

 

     11.5.4 Health Services Nurses  

 

          11.5.4.1 Faculty employed as nurses shall work thirty-six (36) hours per week.  

 

     11.5.5 Other Academic Specialists  

 

     Other Academic Specialists are faculty employed or reassigned by the District to 
provide instructional support one-on-one or in open learning labs such as Computing 
Center, Learning Skills, Reading Center, 

     Stroke Center, Writing Center, Music/Theater Arts Lab, Nursing Lab, Language Lab, 
Academic Systems Lab, Math Learning Center, ESL Lab.  

 

11.6 Instructional Support Faculty (ISF) and Special Projects Faculty  

 

     11.6.1       Instructional Support Faculty are employed or assigned by the District to 
provide non-teaching support of an instructional program or student service, through 
programs such as the Gallery, Theater 

     Sets, Cabrillo Stage, Women’s Studies, cooperative work experience, Puente, and RT 
Clinic.  

 

     11.6.2 Special projects are not to exceed two years.  

 

     11.6.3 Hours/Teaching Units  

 

          11.6.3.1 Faculty employed as contract/regular ISFs shall work thirty-six (36) hours 
per week. Adjunct and overload assignments shall be based on teaching units. Each 
teaching unit (TU) is equal to 

          two and two-fifths (2.4) hours of work per week per semester. The conversion of 
teaching units to hours is specified in Side Letters, Attachment II, Table III.  

 

          11.6.3.2 Reassigned Time  

 

               11.6.3.2.1 ISFs may be reassigned to said positions at the discretion of the 
District and are assigned duties in accordance with the needs of the District.  

 

               11.6.3.2.2 The number of teaching units is specified in Side Letters, Attachment 
II, Table II.  

 

                    11.6.3.2.2.1 Prior to the fifth week of each semester, the Vice President of 
Instruction will provide a written notice to the CCFT listing the employees reassigned 
ISF 

                    and special project duties in accordance with 11.6.1 and 11.6.2.  

 

                    11.6.3.2.2.2 Grants:  Due to the necessity of immediate response time 
required when writing grants, reassigned time associated with grants is outside the 
purview of 

                    this contract.  

 

               11.6.3.2.3    Any change in the compensation or working conditions, as 
specified in Side Letters, Attachment II, Table II, will be negotiated by a committee of 
the VPI, one Division 

               Chair, and two (2) CCFT representatives.  

 

               11.6.3.2.4 In the event that the District wishes to add or delete an ISF, or change 
the duties, compensation or working conditions of an ISF, as specified in Side 

               Letters, Attachment II, Table II, the VPI shall present a description of duties to 
the committee as specified in Article 11.6.3.2.3.  

 

               11.6.3.2.5 Reassigned time for contract/regular faculty shall be converted to the 
appropriate fraction of a full-time equivalent.  If possible, the reassigned time plus the 
regular 

               assignment shall equal a full-time assignment.  If this cannot be accommodated, 
the reassigned time shall be averaged over two (2) consecutive semesters so that the 
number of 

               hours reassigned and the classroom or non-classroom hours are adjusted to the 
nearest hour which completes a full-time assignment for a one year period.  

 

     11.6.4 ISFs assigned to teach a standard scheduled class, as defined in Article 1, as 
part of the unit member's contract assignment shall receive one (1) hour of preparation 
time for each 

     teaching unit of instruction.  

 

     11.6.5 ISFs shall post his/her work schedule adjacent to or on his/her office door.  

 

11.7 Children's Center Teachers  

 

     11.7.1 Faculty employed as Children's Center teachers, paid according to the 
Children's Center Teachers Salary Schedule, shall work forty (40) hours per week.  

 

11.8 Interns/Mentors  

 

     11.8.1 Faculty interns shall be employed as adjunct faculty, shall meet the minimum 
qualifications as specified in Administrative Regulation 5105B, and shall serve under the 
supervision of 

     a mentor and meet with the mentor as specified in Administrative Regulation 5105B.  

 

     11.8.2 Faculty mentors shall be contract/regular faculty.  

 

          11.8.2.1 Faculty mentors shall be identified on a volunteer basis only, in 
consultation with the Division Chair.  

 

          11.8.2.2 Faculty mentors shall provide substantial in-class supervision and 
evaluation of the intern's teaching capabilities.  This monitoring shall include, but is not 
limited to, making at least three 

          (3) classroom visits to the intern's class each session, and reviewing the intern's 
course syllabus, reading lists and examinations.  The mentor shall schedule at least one 
meeting per month with the 

          intern to discuss progress.  

 

          11.8.2.3 Faculty mentors shall have no other assigned duties during the time that 
the intern is teaching or rendering other service directly to students.  

 

          11.8.2.4 Faculty mentors shall be compensated at the rate of $400 per semester.  

 

11.9 Academic Program Directors (APDs)  

 

     11.9.1 Faculty employed as directors and faculty reassigned by the District to direct an 
academic/occupational program are Academic Program Directors (APDs).  APDs have 
the authority and responsibility to 

     direct an academic/occupational program and fulfill program goals.  All APDs must 
meet the minimum qualifications of teaching in the area they direct.  

 

          11.9.1.1 APDs are appointed to said positions at the discretion of the District and 
are assigned duties in accordance with the needs of the District.  

 

          11.9.1.2 Prior to the fifth week of each semester, the Vice President of Instruction 
will provide a written notice to the CCFT listing the employees assigned to each APD 

          position.  

 

     11.9.2   Compensation  

 

          11.9.2.1 The compensation for APDs is based on teaching units (TUs) or hours as 
defined in Side Letters, Attachment II, Table I.  

 

               11.9.2.1.1 Any change in the compensation or working conditions, as specified 
in Side Letters, Attachment II, Table I, will be negotiated during 2001-02.  

 

               11.9.2.1.2 In the event that the District wishes to add or delete an APD, or 
change the duties, compensation or working conditions of an APD, as specified in 

               Attachment II, the VPI shall present a description of duties as specified in 
Article 11.9.2.1.1.  

 

               11.9.2.1.3 The committee shall apply the criteria specified in Side Letters, 
Attachment II, Table I, as guidelines in determining the number of teaching units or 

               hours of compensation.  

 

               11.9.2.1.4 Reassigned time for contract/regular faculty shall be converted to the 
appropriate fraction of a full-time equivalent.  If possible, the reassigned time plus the 
regular 

               assignment shall equal a full-time assignment.  If this cannot be accommodated, 
the reassigned time shall be averaged over two (2) consecutive semesters so that the 
number of 

               hours reassigned and the classroom or non-classroom hours are adjusted to the 
nearest hour, which completes a full-time assignment for a one year period.  

 

               11.9.2.1.5 In 2001-02 only, a one-time stipend in the amount of $568 will be 
provided for each of the 41 APDs as specified in Side Letters, Attachment II, Table I.  
This stipend can be 

               used for training, conferences, equipment, supplies, or professional 
services/special projects.  The stipend may not be used for APD compensation, hourly 
wages or on-going 

               purposes.  

 

     11.9.3 Stipends  

 

     The following directors will receive a stipend of $4,686 per year:  

 

          Director of Athletics  

 

          Director of DSP&S  

 

          Director of Culinary Arts & Hospitality Management  

 

          Director of Transfer Center  

 

          Any resignation of a unit member in a director position with a stipend, as specified 
in this article, will terminate the stipend.  

 

     11.9.4 Extended-Year Contracts (Beginning with the 1996-97 academic year.)  

 

     Extended-year contracts are limited to the following APDs assigned to accrediting 
agency-mandated year-round instructional programs, or district-mandated year-round 
student support 

     programs, and required by the district to work additional days during the summer.  

 

     Extended-year contracts are for the following number of days:  

 

     Director of Athletics: 185 days  

 

     Director DSP&S: 195 days  

 

     Director EOPS:195 days  

 

     Director TLC: 195 days  

 

     Radiology Technology Director: 185 days  

 

     Beginning with the 2001-02 academic year, extended year contracts (195 days) are 
expanded to the three (3) Academic Specialists assigned to the Solari CTC and the 
Watsonville 

     Center CTC due to year-round programs.  

 

          11.9.4.1 The extended-year contract calendar days must be submitted in writing by 
the APD and authorized by the appropriate administrator.  

 

          11.9.4.2 All other APDs or special assignments shall be compensated at the adjunct 
salary schedule rate.  

 

     11.9.5 Evaluation:  All APDs shall be evaluated on their APD duties as defined by the 
generic job description, and their teaching duties, as specified in Side Letters, Attachment 
II, and in the regular evaluation 

     process as defined in Article 17.  

 

11.10 Adjunct Workload  

 

An adjunct unit member teaching load shall consist of no more than sixty percent (60%) 
of the standard full-time teaching load during the 175-day academic year (excluding 
summer and intersession), 

which calculates to a total of 18 teaching units per academic year.  

 

     11.10.1 An adjunct unit member who is authorized by the Vice President, Instruction 
to perform services beyond normal course preparation or classroom activity shall be 
compensated at her/his unit rate. Adjunct 

     unit members shall be compensated at the unit rate for reassigned or director 
responsibilities.  The combination of all assignments, including, but not limited to, 
activities other than classroom, normal course 

     preparation, or office hours, reassigned time, shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of 
the standard full-time teaching load as defined in section 11.1.2 above.  

 

     11.10.2 An adjunct unit member who serves as an evaluator shall be compensated for 
two hours at an hourly rate calculated on the basis of her/his placement on the salary 
schedule.  

 

 

Article 12 

Grievance Procedure 

12.1 The CCFT and the District recognize that the prompt resolution of differences is 
essential to sound employer-employee relations. To this end, the following definitions 
and procedures are adopted.   

 

12.2 Definitions  

 

     12.2.1 A "grievance" is defined as a formal written allegation by a grievant that a 
specific provision of this Agreement has been misinterpreted, misapplied or violated.  

 

     12.2.2 A "grievant" is any bargaining unit member adversely affected by an alleged 
violation of the specific provisions of this Agreement, or the CCFT.  Unless CCFT is 
grieving Article 7 of this Agreement, the 

     CCFT shall name a bargaining unit member or members for each grievance file.  

 

     12.2.3 A "day" is any day in which the administrative offices of the Cabrillo 
Community College District are open for business.  

 

     12.2.4 The "immediate supervisor" is the lowest level administrator having immediate 
jurisdiction over the grievant who has been designated by the District to adjust 
grievances.  

 

     12.2.5 A "CCFT representative" is designated by the CCFT to represent a grievant.  

 

     12.2.6 "Shall" is mandatory, "may" is permissive.  

 

     12.2.7 To "file" means to deliver personally or by certified mail return receipt 
requested.  A document is "filed" on the day it is received.  

 

12.3 General Provisions  

 

     12.3.1 Until final disposition of a grievance, the grievant shall comply with the 
directions of the grievant's immediate supervisor.  

 

     12.3.2 All documents dealing with the processing of a grievance shall be filed 
separately from the personnel files of the participants. However, this provision shall not 
prohibit the 

     appropriate filing of documents relating to disciplinary matters, unless the removal of 
such documents is ordered as part of any grievance settlement or arbitration award.  

 

     12.3.3 No party to a grievance shall take any reprisals against the other party to the 
grievance because the party participated in an orderly manner in the grievance procedure.  

 

     12.3.4 Failure of the grievant to adhere to the time deadlines shall mean that the 
grievance is settled by the decision at the previous level and that the grievant waives the 
right to further 

     appeal.  

 

     12.3.5 Failure of the District to adhere to the time deadlines at any level shall mean 
that the grievance is automatically moved to the next level.  

 

     12.3.6 By mutual agreement in writing, the grievant and the District may extend the 
time deadlines at any level.  

 

     12.3.7 Every effort will be made to schedule meetings for the processing of grievances 
at times which will not interfere with the regular workday of the participants. In any 
event, meetings 

     shall not be scheduled so as to interfere with the CCFT representative's academic 
schedule unless mutually agreed otherwise by the CCFT and the District. The CCFT 
representative shall 

     be released from academic duties for meetings or hearings at Level III which conflict 
with her/his work schedule. If any grievance meeting or hearing must be scheduled 
during the work 

     day, any employee required by either party to participate as a witness or grievant in 
such meeting or hearing shall be released from regular duties without loss of pay for a 
reasonable 

     amount of time necessary for the presentation of the grievance or testimony.  

 

     12.3.8 Either party to the grievance may be represented at any step of the grievance 
procedure by an individual of the party's choice; however, an agent of a nonexclusive 
representative 

     group shall not act on behalf of or represent the grievant. The CCFT representative as 
defined in this Article may present the case for the grievant or respondent or serve as an 
advisor. A 

     bargaining unit member designated by CCFT to represent a grievant shall receive 
reasonable release time as provided in Article 7.6 of this Agreement to attend grievance 
meetings and 

     hearings provided for in the grievance procedure.  

 

     12.3.9 The grievant may elect to have the grievance adjusted without the intervention 
of the CCFT, so long as the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this 
Agreement, and 

     provided that the District shall not agree to a resolution of the grievance at levels one 
(1) and two (2) until the CCFT has received a copy of the grievance and the proposed 
resolution, and 

     has been given reasonable opportunity to file a response.  

 

     12.3.10 If a grievance is filed at the end of the academic year, and if being left 
unresolved until the beginning of the subsequent academic year would result in harm to 
the grievant, then by 

     mutual agreement, the time limits herein will be reduced so that the procedure will be 
exhausted as soon as practicable.  

 

     12.3.11 If the grievance involves action or inaction by an administrator above the 
grievant's immediate supervisor as defined above, the grievance may be filed in writing at 
Level II - 

     Superintendent/President.  

 

     12.3.12 Grievances of a similar or like nature may be joined as a single grievance 
upon the written consent of the CCFT. The final decision shall be binding upon all parties 
to the 

     consolidated grievance.  

 

     12.3.13 The day following an actual service of written decision by either of the parties 
shall be counted as DAY ONE for any deadline.  

 

     12.3.14 By mutual agreement, at any time prior to arbitration, the grievance may 
revert to a prior level for reconsideration.   

 

     12.3.15 The parties may mutually agree to utilize expedited arbitration procedures.  

 

12.4 Procedure  

 

 At each level in the grievance procedure, the grievant must file the grievance and all 
related documents with the person involved at the appropriate level and with the Director 
of Personnel and Human Resources.  Grievances 

will be processed in accordance with the following procedures:  

 

     12.4.1 Level I - Informal Resolution  

 

          12.4.1.1 Any unit member who believes she/he has a grievance shall present the 
grievance in writing to the immediate supervisor, within thirty (30) days (excluding 

          non-contractual days between semesters) after the grievant knew, or reasonably 
should have known, of the circumstances which form the basis for the grievance. Failure 
to 

          do so will render the grievance null and void. The administrator shall hold 
discussions and attempt to resolve the matter. This provision shall not be read to prohibit 
or in any 

          way limit open discussion between a unit member and immediate supervisor 
regarding potential violations of the Collective Agreement. Nor shall this provision limit 
the right 

          of a unit member to have CCFT representation during these open discussions 
regarding potential violations.  

 

          12.4.1.2 The written information provided by the grievant shall include:  

 

               (a)  a description of the specific grounds of the grievance, including but not 
limited to names, dates, and places necessary for a complete understanding of the 
grievance,  

 

               (b)  a listing of the provisions of this agreement which are alleged to have been 
violated,  

 

               (c)  a listing of specific actions requested of the District which will remedy the 
grievance. Three (3) copies of the grievance form shall be completed by the grievant. The 
grievant 

               shall submit one (1) copy to the immediate supervisor, one copy to the CCFT 
and retain the third copy.  

 

          12.4.1.3 The immediate supervisor shall communicate the decision on the 
grievance to the grievant, the Director of Personnel and Human Resources, and the CCFT 

          Grievance Officer (provided the CCFT is representing the grievant in the 
grievance), in writing within fifteen (15) days after receiving the grievance.  

 

          12.4.1.4 Within the above time limits either party may request a personal 
conference.  

 

     12.4.2 Level II - Appeal to Superintendent/President  

 

          12.4.2.1 If the grievant is not satisfied with the decision at Level I, the grievant 
may within ten (10) days of the receipt of the decision at Level I appeal the decision on 
the 

          appropriate form to the Superintendent/President. This statement shall include a 
copy of the original grievance and appeal, and a concise statement of the reasons for the 

          appeal.  

 

          12.4.2.2 Within ten (10) days after receipt of the appeal, the 
Superintendent/President or designee shall schedule a conference with the grievant and 
other persons whose 

          assistance to the Superintendent/President or designee is deemed necessary to 
adjust the grievance.  

 

          12.4.2.3 Within fifteen (15) days after the conference is held, the 
Superintendent/President or designee shall communicate in writing to the grievant and 
the grievant's immediate supervisor, the 

          Director of Personnel and Human Resources, and the CCFT Grievance Officer, the 
decision and the reasons therefore.   

 

     12.4.3 Level III - Binding Arbitration  

 

          12.4.3.1 If the grievant is not satisfied with the decision at Level II, the grievant  
may, within ten (10) days of the receipt of the decision submit a request in writing to the 
CCFT for arbitration of the 

          dispute. Within ten (10) days of the receipt of the grievant's request for arbitration, 
the CCFT shall inform the District of its intent as to whether or not the grievance will be 
arbitrated. The CCFT 

          and the District may attempt to agree upon an arbitrator.  If no agreement can be 
reached, the CCFT and the District shall request that the State Conciliation Service 
supply a panel of five (5) names 

          of persons experienced in hearing grievances in public schools. Each party shall 
alternatively strike names until only one name remains. The remaining panel member 
shall be the arbitrator. The 

          order of the striking shall be determined by lot.  

 

          12.4.3.2 The arbitrator shall, as soon as possible, hear evidence and tender a 
decision on the issue or issues submitted to her/him. If the parties cannot agree upon a 

          submission agreement, the arbitrator shall determine the issues by referring to the 
written grievance and the answers thereto at each step.  

 

          12.4.3.3 The District and the CCFT agree that the jurisdiction and authority of the 
arbitrator so selected and the opinions the arbitrator expresses will be confined 
exclusively 

          to the interpretation of the express provision or provisions of this Agreement at 
issue between the parties. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, subtract from, 
alter, 

          amend, or modify any provisions of this Agreement or impose any limitations or 
obligations not specifically provided for under the terms of this Agreement. The 
arbitrator 

          shall be without power or authority to make any decision that requires the District 
or the administration to do an act prohibited by law.  

 

          12.4.3.4 After hearing evidence and after both parties have had an opportunity to 
make written arguments, the arbitrator shall submit in writing to all parties, her/his 
findings 

          and award.  

 

          12.4.3.5 The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding.  

 

          12.4.3.6 The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the 
District and the CCFT. All other expenses shall be borne by the party incurring them, and 

          neither party shall be responsible for the expense of witnesses called by the other. 
Either party may request a certified court reporter to record the entire arbitration hearing. 

          The cost of the services of such court reporter shall be paid by the party requesting 
the reporter or shared by the parties if they both mutually agree. If the arbitrator requests 

          a court reporter, then the costs shall be shared by both parties.  

 

          12.4.3.7 Alleged violations of Article 5 (Non-discrimination) shall not be subject to 
the binding arbitration provisions of this Article. If the grievant is not satisfied with the 
decision at Level II of the 

          grievance procedure, the grievant may appeal the decision to the Governing Board 
or pursue other remedies she/he may have before state or federal agencies or courts.  

 

 

Article 13 

Salary 

13.1 Salary Schedules 

 

      13.1.1 Contract/Regular Salary Schedule 

 

          13.1.1.1 In 2001-02, the 2000-01 Contract Regular Salary Schedule shall be 
increased 7% to 8% effective the first day of the 2001-02 academic year based on the 

          following: 

 

                    13.1.1.1.1 If the District receives $190,000 or more from the State Adopted 
Budget for community colleges for part-time (adjunct) faculty 

                    compensation, then the Contract Regular Salary Schedule shall be increased 
8%. 

 

                    13.1.1.1.2 If the District receives less than $190,000 from the State Adopted 
Budget for community colleges for part-time (adjunct) faculty 

                    compensation, then the Contract Regular Salary Schedule shall be increased 
by 7% plus a factor equivalent to the amount of State funds received 

                    for part-time faculty compensation divided by $190,000. 

 

                    13.1.1.1.3 If the District receives no funding from the State Adopted Budget 
for community colleges for part-time (adjunct) faculty compensation, 

                    then the Contract Regular Salary Schedule shall be increased 7%. 

 

          13.1.1.2 In 2001-02, columns 4, 5, and 6 of the Contract Regular Salary Schedule 
shall be increased by one step effective the first day of the 2001-02 academic year as 

          follows: 

 

                    13.1.1.2.1 Column 4; add $1,365 to step 15 to establish step 16 

 

                    13.1.1.2.2 Column 5; add $1,460 to step 20 to establish step 21 

 

                    13.1.1.2.3 Column 6; add $1,560 to step 25 to establish step 26 

 

          13.1.1.3 In 2002-03, the 2001-02 Contract Regular Salary Schedule shall be 
increased 4% effective the first day of the 2002-03 academic year 

 

          13.1.1.4 In 2003-04, the 2002-03 Contract Regular Salary Schedule shall be 
increased 3.5% effective the first day of the 2003-04 academic year 

 

          13.1.1.5 Adjunct salary schedule and adjunct academic specialist salary schedule 
cap 

 

                    13.1.1.5.1 State funds received during the life of this contract for part time 
faculty compensation will be applied towards the elimination of the salary cap on the 

                    adjunct and adjunct academic specialist salary schedules. 

 

                    13.1.1.5.2 If, during the life of this contract, the District receives more from 
the State budget for community colleges for part time faculty compensation than is 
required 

                    to eliminate the cap, then this amount will be the financial parameter for the 
parties to reopen the following articles:  13.1.2.2, 60% pro rata;  13.1.3.2, 80% pro rata;  

                    13.3.2, step advancement;  14.4, adjunct benefits;  16, adjunct. 

 

                    13.1.1.5.3 During the life of this contract, a minimum of $385,000 will be 
applied to elimination of the salary cap, with or without State funds, as follows,  

 

                         2001-02 District commits $190,000 towards the elimination of the salary 
cap 

 

                         2002-03 District commits $95,000 towards the elimination of the salary 
cap 

 

                         2003-04 District commits $100,000 towards the elimination of the salary 
cap 

 

                    13.1.1.5.4  Funds received from the State in any year will be applied in that 
same year.  For example, if the college receives $385,000 in 2001-02, all the funds will 
be 

                    distributed in 2001-02, and the District commitment for 2002-03 and 2003-
04 will have been met.  Refer  to Side Letter 2001-02.3 for variations depending upon 
State 

                    money. 

 

      13.1.2 Adjunct Salary Schedule 

 

          13.1.2.1 The adjunct salary schedule shall have the same number of steps and 
columns as the full-time salary schedule. 

 

          13.1.2.2 The salary paid per teaching unit on the adjunct salary schedule shall be 
calculated by taking the corresponding annual salary from the contract/regular salary 

          schedule, dividing that number by thirty (30) and taking sixty percent (60%) of the 
result. 

 

          13.1.2.3 Adjunct unit members who qualify for Class 6 and hold a Doctorate or 
approved Master of Fine Arts Degree (Section 13.4.2) shall receive a prorated doctoral 

          stipend per unit of compensation, calculated by taking the Contract/Regular 
Doctorate stipend, dividing that number by thirty (30) and taking 60% of the result. 

 

     13.1.3   Academic Specialist Adjunct Salary Schedule 

 

          13.1.3.1 The Academic Specialist adjunct salary schedule shall have the same 
number of steps and columns as the full-time salary schedule. 

 

          13.1.3.2 The salary paid per teaching unit on the Academic Specialist adjunct 
salary schedule shall be calculated by taking the corresponding annual salary from the 

          contract/regular salary schedule, dividing that number by thirty (30) and taking 
eighty percent (80%) of the result. 

 

          13.1.3.3 Academic Specialist adjunct unit members who qualify for Class 6 and 
hold a Doctorate or approved Master of Fine Arts Degree (Section 13.4.2) shall receive a 

          prorated doctoral stipend per unit of compensation, calculated by taking the 
Contract/Regular Doctorate stipend, dividing that number by thirty (30) and taking 80% 
of the 

          result. 

 

     13.1.4 Children’s Center Teacher Salary Schedule 

 

          13.1.4.1 Salary Schedule Increases 

 

               13.1.4.1.1 Increases in the contract/regular salary schedule (section 13.1.1) shall 
be reflected by the same percentage increase in the Children's Center Teacher 

               Salary Schedules. 

 

               13.1.4.1.2 In 2001-02, the Children’s Center Classroom Teacher and the 
Children’s Center Master Teacher classifications, as designated in the 2000-01 

               Salary Schedule, shall be combined into one classification as per Appendix H.1. 

 

               13.1.4.1.3 In 2002-03, the Children’s Center Teacher Salary Schedule shall be 
modified as per Appendix H.2. 

 

          3.1.4.2 The Children’s Center Teacher Salary Schedule is for 190 contract days. 

 

          13.1.4.3 Initial Salary Placement 

 

               Initial salary placement shall be according to Article 13.2.   

 

          13.1.4.4 Step Advancement 

 

               Step advancement shall be according to Article 13.3. 

 

13.2 Initial Salary Placement 

 

     13.2.1 Step placement shall be based on in-district teaching service rendered and 
credit for out-of-district teaching experience granted at the time of initial employment, or 
applicable work experience directly 

     related to the teaching assignment granted at the time of initial employment. 

 

     13.2.2 Occupational experience directly related to the unit member's teaching 
assignment in the District will be credited as follows:  for each two (2) years of previous 
related occupational experience, one (1) step 

     advancement will be granted to the maximum credit as defined within Section 13.2.3.  
The experience must be beyond the occupational experience needed to satisfy the 
minimum qualifications. 

 

     13.2.3 Unit members hired as a contract/regular employee shall receive one step 
advancement for each year of teaching experience, provided each year of teaching was on 
a full-time basis for seventy-five percent 

     (75%) or more of an academic year.  The maximum credit a unit member may initially 
receive is eight (8) years, placed at Step 9.  Adjunct unit members shall receive one step 
advancement on the adjunct salary 

     schedule for each two (2) semesters of teaching experience to a maximum of eight (8) 
years to be placed at the ninth (9) step. 

 

     13.2.4 Credit for active, full-time military service may be granted on the basis of one 
step for twelve (12) to twenty-three (23) months duty time and two (2) steps for twenty-
four (24) or more months duty time, 

     towards the maximum credit as defined within Section 13.2.3. 

 

     13.2.5 Unit members with no previous experience will be placed at Step 1. 

 

     13.2.6 All new contract, regular and adjunct unit members will be evaluated and 
notified in writing of their initial placement on the salary schedule, within thirty (30) days 
of the beginning of their assignment. 

     Permanent placement will be contingent upon submission of required records and 
documents within ninety (90) days of employment. Changes made in salary placement as 
a result of documentation submitted 

     after the permanent evaluation will be effective the beginning of the fall semester of 
the following year, or effective at the beginning of the following semester for adjunct 
faculty. 

 

     13.2.7 Effective beginning the academic year of 2001-02, for initial placement, 
graduate or upper division coursework earned subsequent to attainment of a Master’s 
Degree in a regionally accredited college or 

     university will be credited for salary schedule class/column purposes.  With the 
approval of the supervising vice president, lower division course work earned in a 
regionally accredited college or university 

     subsequent to attainment of a Master’s degree that is related to the unit member’s 
assignment will be accepted. 

 

13.3 Step Advancement and Career Increments 

 

     13.3.1 Contract and regular unit members with an assignment of 60% or more shall 
receive one step advancement within the appropriate class upon satisfactory completion 
of at least seventy-five percent (75%) 

     of the number of days of required service including days of paid leave and 
professional development in the preceding year or in two semesters until the maximum 
step allowed has been reached.  

 

          13.3.1.1 Contract and regular unit members with assignments of less than 60% 
shall receive one step advancement every two years. 

 

      13.3.2 Adjunct unit members shall receive one step advancement within the 
appropriate class in the adjunct salary schedule, for each two semesters of service to the 
District. 

 

13.4 Placement in salary schedule class (column) 

 

     13.4.1 Unit members shall be assigned a class (column) on the salary schedule(s) in 
accordance with the classification requirements defined herein below: 

 

          13.4.1.1 Class 1 - BA, or specific minimum qualifications in a discipline where 
minimum qualifications do not include a masters degree. 

 

          13.4.1.2 Class 2 - MA or MS required 

 

          13.4.1.3 Class 3 - Class 2 plus 15 Units or MA/MS with a Bachelor’s plus 45 units 

 

          13.4.1.4 Class 4 - Class 3 plus 15 units or MA/MS with a Bachelor’s plus 60 units 

 

          13.4.1.5 Class 5 - Class 4 plus 15 units or MA/MS with a Bachelor’s plus 75 units 

 

          13.4.1.6 Class 6 - Class 5 plus 15 units or Doctorate Degree or MA/MS with a 
Bachelor’s plus 90 units 

 

     13.4.2 The doctoral stipend shall be granted to contract and regular unit members who 
qualify for Class 6 and hold an earned doctorate degree. 

 

          13.4.2.1 The doctoral stipend shall be granted to contract and regular unit members 
who qualify for Class 6 and hold a Master of Fine Arts Degree in the Visual or 
Performing Arts from a 

          professional school or university accredited by the National Association of Schools 
of Arts and Design, Music, Dance, or Theatre Arts.  The MFA for Visual or Performing 
Arts has been 

          determined to be equivalent to a doctorate degree.  For a Master of Fine Arts in 
other disciplines to qualify for the doctoral stipend, the MFA degree must be determined 
to be equivalent to a 

          doctorate by an appropriate accrediting organization, the Division Chair, and the 
Vice President of Instruction.  

 

13.5 Professional Improvement and Work Experience Credits 

 

     13.5.1 Graduate or upper division course work earned subsequent to attainment of a 
Master's Degree in a regularly accredited college or university shall be credited for salary 
schedule class/column purposes.  

     With the prior approval of the Vice President of Instruction, lower division course 
work related to the unit member's assignment may be accepted.  Honorary degrees are not 
acceptable for placement and/or 

     advancement on the salary schedule.  Units which are not accepted for credit by the 
institution where such courses were taken will not be acceptable for placement and/or 
advancement on the salary schedule.  

     Coursework is credited in semester units. A quarter unit equals two thirds (2/3) of a 
semester unit. 

 

     13.5.2 Unit Credit for Activities Other Than College Classes 

 

          13.5.2.1 Alternative methods of unit credit are available to unit members. Unit 
members may earn up to nine (9) alternative units in each class. Such units must be 
approved 

          by the Sabbatical Leave Review Board. 

 

          13.5.2.2 APPLICATION:  An Application for Alternative Methods of Unit Credit 
(see Appendix S) must be submitted to the Sabbatical Leave Review Board before 
completion of the project. Credit 

          will be granted only with approval of the application and receipt of documentation 
of completion (see Appendix S). 

 

          13.5.2.3 EQUIVALENCY:  Forty-eight hours of work in any of the following 
activities is equivalent to one unit of credit on the salary schedule.  The hours of all 
completed activities may be 

          accumulated towards the 48 hours necessary for 1 unit. 

 

               13.5.2.3.1 Occupational/Technical Development: A faculty member observes, 
studies, evaluates, or works on a special area in her/his field, or trains with a 

               mentor in his/her field including continuing education courses and related 
projects. The faculty member must demonstrate that such work is related to the 

               person's assignment and is not available through college credit. 

 

               13.5.2.3.2 Publications, Performances, Exhibits, or Demonstrations:  The work 
must give evidence of the instructor's professional growth and must enhance or augment 
an 

               instructor's professional growth and must enhance or augment an instructor's 
knowledge and understanding in subjects. 

 

13.6 Only one advancement in salary class may be achieved per year, and the unit 
member requesting a change must submit all relevant degrees, transcripts and documents 
no later than November 1 of 

the year of the salary class change. A unit member may advance as many classes in a year 
as the earned credit allows. 

 

13.7 A unit member who conducts an authorized field/travel study shall be compensated 
at the adjunct salary schedule rate.  

 

13.8 A unit member teaching a field course shall be compensated for field expenses at the 
rate of $50.00 for each week spent in the field. Transportation shall be reimbursed at the 
prevailing District 

rate. 

 

13.9 Privileges 

 

     13.9.1 Unit members shall receive one staff parking permit per year or a bus pass 
without charge. 

 

     13.9.2 Unit members shall, upon request, be provided with a pass good for free 
admission to college-sponsored, regular season, athletic events. 

 

     13.9.3 Unit members who are assigned to off-campus work sites shall be reimbursed 
for travel between assigned work sites at the prevailing District rate. 

 

13.10 Substitute Teaching Compensation 

 

Effective the 2001-02 academic year, substitute teachers shall be compensated for each 
hour of such teaching at the rate of $35.00 per hour.  See Article 16.7 regarding adjunct 
faculty workload. 

 

13.11 STRS, Employee Contribution 

 

In September 1989, unit members contributing to STRS voted to approve the "Employer 
Pickup" option covered by the Internal Revenue Code Section 414(h)(2).  This program 
provides that employee contributions to STRS are 

nontaxable.  Contributions are considered part of the employee's compensation for 
everything except tax treatment.  The effective date of this program was January 2, 1990. 

 

13.12 Number of pay checks 

 

 The District shall provide contract/regular unit members with the option of receiving 
their pay in either 10 or 12 equal distribution periods. 

 

Article 14 

Health and Welfare Insurance Coverage 

                                                                             

 

14.1 Insurance Coverage  

 

     14.1.1 The District agrees to make available medical, dental, life insurance, and long-
term disability insurance as defined in Article 14.3 and shall provide to all bargaining 
unit members on a yearly 

     basis, information describing the current features of these insurance offerings. All 
insurance programs are subject to carrier requirements for eligibility enrollment and 
processing of claims.  The 

     District is a member of the Santa Cruz County Schools Health Insurance Group (JPA), 
which provides the medical and dental insurance.  A unit member may secure more 
insurance than his/her 

     stipend covers by authorizing a salary deduction to cover the added premium cost.  

 

14.2 District Paid Insurance Stipend  

 

     14.2.1 Medical Coverage for Employee Only:  The District shall provide full-time 
regular and contract unit members with medical coverage for employee only, a benefits 
stipend for medical, dental, 

     life insurance and long-term disability insurance, up to $4,800.00 per year, calculated 
based on their assignment status and paid on a monthly basis as follows:  

 

          14.2.1.1  Ten months assignment:  $480.00 monthly ($4,800.00 annually)  

 

          14.2.1.2 Regular or contract unit members working partial assignments shall 
receive a pro rata stipend based on the percentage of their assignment.  

 

     14.2.2 Medical Coverage for Employee Plus One Dependent:  The District shall 
provide full-time regular and contract unit members with employee plus one dependent in 
medical coverage, a benefits 

     stipend for medical, dental, life insurance and long-term disability insurance, up to 
$6,232.80 per year, calculated based on their assignment status and paid on a monthly 
basis as follows:  

 

          14.2.2.1 Ten months assignment:  $623.28 monthly ($6,232.80 annually)  

 

          14.2.2.2 Regular or contract unit members working partial assignments shall 
receive a pro rata stipend based on the percentage of their assignment.  

 

          14.2.2.3 The stipend provided in Section 14.2.2 shall be increased during the life of 
this contract if necessary to equal the rates for employee plus one dependent enrolled in 

          the least expensive HMO and dental insurance (Section 14.3.2), and employee 
participation in life insurance (Section 14.3.3) and long-term disability insurance (Section 

          14.3.4).  

 

     14.2.3 Medical Coverage for Employee Plus Two Dependents:  

 

          The District shall provide full-time regular and contract unit members with 
employee plus two dependents in medical coverage a benefits stipend for medical, dental, 
life 

          insurance and long-term disability insurance up to $6,800.00 per year, calculated 
based on their assignment status and paid on a monthly basis as follows:  

 

          14.2.3.1 Ten months assignment:  $680.00 monthly ($6,800.00 annually).  

 

          14.2.3.2 Regular or contract unit members working partial assignments shall 
receive a pro-rata stipend based on the percentage of their assignment.  

 

          14.2.3.3 The stipend provided in Section 14.2.3 shall be increased during the life of 
this contract if necessary to equal the rates for employee plus two dependent enrolled in 

          the least expensive HMO and dental insurance (Section 14.3.2), and employee 
participation in life insurance (Section 14.3.3) and long-term disability insurance (Section 

          14.3.4).  

 

     14.2.4 Utilization of Insurance Stipend:  Subject to all other eligibility requirements 
contained in this Article, the District-paid insurance stipend may be utilized by unit 
members as follows:  

 

          14.2.4.1 Full-time Regular and Contract Unit Members Hired On or Before August 
12, 1996 date:  These unit members shall utilize whatever portion of the stipend is 
necessary to 

          purchase required coverage in insurance programs provided in section 14.3 and, at 
the option of the unit member, to purchase additional coverage in those insurance 
programs.  The 

          balance of the stipend, if any remains, may be received directly by the unit member 
as compensation.  

 

          14.2.4.2 Full-time Regular and Contract Unit Members Hired After August 12, 
1996 date:  These unit members shall utilize whatever portion of the stipend is necessary 
to purchase 

          required coverage in insurance programs provided in section 14.3 and, at the option 
of the unit member, to purchase additional coverage in those insurance programs.  The 
unit 

          members shall not be entitled to receive as compensation any unused portion of the 
stipend.  

 

14.3 Insurance Programs  

 

     14.3.1 Medical Insurance  

 

          Medical coverage for any unit member is mandatory (see Side Letters, Attachment 
III).  It is voluntary for dependents, including a principle domestic partner.  If medical 
insurance is 

          declined initially for the unit member's dependents, then any subsequent enrollment 
shall be subject to evidence of insurability of that unit member's dependents.  The unit 
member shall 

          select from the following:  

 

               (a)  Blue Cross Prudent Buyer Plan I  

 

               (b)  Blue Cross Prudent Buyer Plan II  

 

               (c)  Blue Cross Prudent Buyer Plan III  

 

               (d)  Blue Cross Prudent Buyer Plan IV  

 

               (e)  Blue Cross Prudent Buyer Plan VII  

 

               (f)  HealthNet  

 

               (g)  CaliforniaCare  

 

          14.3.2 Dental Insurance  

 

          Participation in the Delta Dental Plan #8 with $2,000 maximum benefit is 
mandatory for the unit member, voluntary for dependents.  Dependents who have not 
previously been 

          withdrawn from the plan may be added during an "open enrollment" period, which 
will be available for one month each year.  

 

     14.3.3 Life Insurance.  

 

          Participation in the approved plan is mandatory for the unit member.  

 

     14.3.4 Long-Term Disability Insurance  

 

          Participation in the long-term disability insurance provided by UNUM Insurance 
Company is mandatory for the unit member.  

 

     14.3.5 IRS 125 for dependent care and health care.  

 

          The District shall offer, for eligible unit members, a three-level IRS 125 plan.  Any 
change of administrator for the IRS 125 plan will be mutually agreed upon by the District 
and the 

          CCFT.  

 

14.4 Adjunct Unit Members  

 

     14.4.1 Initial Eligibility  

 

          Initial eligibility for a district-paid benefits stipend for medical and dental 
insurance is established at the end of two consecutive academic years during which the 
member worked 15 or 

          more units per year.  Once initial eligibility has been established an adjunct unit 
member maintains eligibility for a district-paid benefits stipend if the unit member 
worked 15 or more 

          units the previous academic year.  This initial eligibility is lost when a member 
works less than 15 units per year for two consecutive academic years.  If lost, initial 
eligibility is 

          reestablished at the end of two consecutive years during which the member worked 
15 or more units per year.  

 

     14.4.2 Non-assignment but Eligible for Benefits  

 

          Adjunct unit members who do not receive an assignment and who are otherwise 
eligible for medical benefits or adjunct unit members who indicate on an Availability 

          Statement that they will not be available for service for up to two semesters and 
who otherwise qualify for medical benefits will retain their eligibility for benefits for up 
to two 

          semesters and may maintain the benefits by paying the cost of the premiums.  

 

     14.4.3 Initial Eligibility Established but Annual Work Load Less Than 15 Units  

 

          After initial eligibility has been established, if benefits are lost due to a decreased 
workload the previous year, then it will be reinstated if the workload for the current year 
is 

          greater than or equal to 15 units, otherwise the adjunct employee must meet initial 
eligibility again. (Refer to Side Letter 2001-02.8, under development as of this printing)  

 

     14.4.4 District's Financial Participation and Notification  

 

          The District's participation in this plan is an annual amount of $100,744, as of 
2001-02, and shall be increased each subsequent year by the percentage increase applied 
to the 

          contract/regular salary schedule specified in Section 13.1.  In   

 

          2002-03 and 2003-04 only, the annual amount shall be increased by $15,000.  The 
amount shall also be increased by the amount the District receives from the State for 
adjunct 

          teaching at more than one district.  The amount will be applied to the District’s 
financial participation in 2001-02 for the State reimbursement in 1999-00, and in 2002-03 
for the State 

          reimbursement in 2000-01.  

 

          The stipend amount per person per month shall be calculated on or near May 1st of 
each year as follows:  the annual amount of District participation shall (1) be divided by 
the number 

          of adjunct unit members who are participating in the program as of May 1st, and 
(2) be divided by ten to calculate the stipend amount per person per month.  

 

          On or near May 1st of each year the District shall prepare a list of all adjunct 
members who will be eligible for the benefits stipend in the following year based on the 
criteria established 

          in 14.4.1.  The District shall send a copy of this list to the CCFT.  By May 15th the 
District shall have notified all eligible persons of (a) their eligibility for the following 
year, and (b) 

          the amount of the district stipend for the following year, so they may choose to 
participate.  Those choosing to participate must notify the personnel office by August 1st 
of each year.  

 

     14.4.5 Additional Insurance Coverage  

 

          An adjunct unit member may secure more insurance than his/her stipend covers by 
authorizing a salary deduction to cover the added premium costs.  

 

     14.4.6 Insurance Coverage When Eligibility is Lost  

 

          If a previously participating adjunct member is no longer eligible for the district-
paid stipend, then he/she may purchase the district plan under the provisions of, and 
within the 

          limits of COBRA.  

 

14.5 The District will provide an alternative retirement plan to Social Security for adjunct 
members.  Adjunct members may opt for this alternative plan, STRS, or Social Security. 
Once the employee elects the 

alternative plan, the decision is irrevocable.  The combined contribution from the district 
and the unit member is 7.5%. The District will contribute 4.5% to the alternative plan and 
the unit member will contribute 

3%, deducted from the unit member's pay.  The CCFT and the District agree to a 
retirement plan offered by APPLE as the alternate retirement plan for adjunct faculty.   

 

 

Article 15 

Layoffs 

15.1 At least 120 days prior to the effective date of a proposed layoff of bargaining unit 
members, the District will give the Union notice and an opportunity to bargain any 
impacts of the proposed 

decision to layoff which changes the status quo and within the scope of representation 
and which have not previously been negotiated. 

 

15.2 FACULTY SERVICE AREAS ("FSAs") 

 

     15.2.1 DEFINITION:  FSAs are service or instructional subject areas or a group of 
related services or instructional subject areas performed by faculty and established by 
agreement of the District, the Faculty 

     Senate, and the CCFT.  Each FSA is listed in Appendix U, attached to this Agreement. 

 

     15.2.2 FUNCTION:  The function of FSAs is to provide objective and legal criteria by 
which seniority and displacement ("bumping") rights of faculty are determined when a 
reduction in force (layoff) is 

     implemented. 

 

     15.2.3 INITIAL ASSIGNMENT:  Faculty members shall qualify for and be assigned 
by the District to one or more FSAs at the time of initial employment based on minimum 
qualifications pursuant to Education 

     Code 87356 and the unit member's initial assignment. 

 

     15.2.4 ADDITIONAL FSAs:  After initial employment, a faculty member may apply 
to the District to add FSAs for which the faculty member qualifies. 

 

          15.2.4.1 To be eligible for an additional FSA, a faculty member must meet both the 
(1) minimum qualifications pursuant to Education Code 87356, and (2) district 

          competency standards as set forth in section 15.2.4.1.1 below. 

 

               15.2.4.1.1 DISTRICT COMPETENCY CRITERIA 

 

                         For purposes of a reduction in force (layoff) only, a faculty member shall 
be considered to meet District competency criteria to serve 

                         in a FSA if he/she meets the criteria set forth in Board Policy 5107, 
attached to this Agreement as Appendix W. 

 

          15.2.4.2 By the first of December, the current list of FSAs will be posted in the 
Personnel Department and be available in each Division office. 

 

          15.2.4.3 The Personnel Department will distribute the FSA Update Form to each 
faculty member by the first of December.  To add an FSA, the faculty member must so 
request on the FSA Update 

          Form, Appendix V.  In order to be considered in any reduction in force (layoff) 
proceeding during the academic year in which the application is received, the FSA 
Update Form is due to the 

          Personnel Department on or before the last academic day of the fall semester. 

 

     15.2.5 EVALUATION OF REQUESTS FOR ADDITIONAL FSAs: 

 

     Requests for additional FSAs will be evaluated by the Division Chair from the FSA 
being sought and a representative from the Personnel office.  The faculty member will be 
notified of the decision to accept or 

     deny his/her request by February 1.  If the request is accepted, current members of the 
new FSA will be notified in writing that the faculty member's request for a new FSA has 
been accepted. 

 

          15.2.5.1 Evaluation of Denial of Requests for Additional FSAs: 

 

               If a request for an additional FSA is denied pursuant to section 15.2.5 above, 
such request/denial shall be evaluated by the Vice President of Instruction, or 

               designee, the Division Chair of the requested new FSA, and the Faculty Senate 
President, or designee. 

 

               The faculty member will be notified of this committee's decision by February 
15.  If the request for an additional FSA is accepted, current members of that FSA will be 
notified as 

               specified in section 15.2.5 above. 

 

15.3 ORDER OF LAYOFFS 

 

     Layoffs of faculty members as a result of a reduction in force shall occur as prescribed 
in the Education Code.  In the event of a layoff, the Board shall, consistent with District 
seniority and displacement 

     ("bumping") rights established by the Education Code and Title 5 of the California 
Code of regulations, reassign faculty members to positions in Faculty Service Areas(s) 
("FSA") for which they have qualified 

     consistent with this Article. 

 

 

16.1 Definitions 

 

Article 16 

Adjunct Faculty 

     An "adjunct instructor" means a bargaining unit member who is employed and 
classified as a temporary employee in accordance with Education Code Sections 87478, 
87480, 87481, 

     87482, or 87482.5. 

 

16.2 Notification of Full-Time Vacancies 

 

     Adjunct unit members may notify the District of their interest in vacancies in 
particular divisions/departments by submitting an "Availability Statement" (Appendix I). 
Based on the 

     Availability Statements on file, the District shall notify adjunct unit members of 
appropriate full-time bargaining unit vacancies prior to any public posting or advertising 
of such vacancies. 

     The CCFT shall be notified of all full-time bargaining unit vacancies prior to any 
public posting or advertising. 

 

16.3 Scheduling: Availability Statement 

 

     16.3.1 An adjunct unit member shall have the opportunity to state his or her 
availability and list preferred courses by submitting an "Availability Statement" to the 
appropriate division chair 

     (or program head when the course falls outside the division) prior to the development 
of the schedule for each semester or session. 

 

          If an adjunct unit member does not receive an assignment for any given semester or 
session, the appropriate administrator shall notify the unit member in writing and shall 
specify in 

          this notice one or more of the following reasons for this decision.  Reasons for not 
receiving an assignment shall include: 

 

               (a) less than satisfactory evaluation 

 

               (b) termination of course offering 

 

               (c) return of a probationary or regular contract member from leave, where the 
adjunct unit member was employed as a temporary replacement 

 

               (d) consolidation of positions toward a contract position 

 

               (e) the need of a regular or contract unit member to complete a normal load 

 

               (f) reduction in force 

 

               (g) maintenance of continuity and quality of educational program  

 

               (h) demonstrated need of the District.  In this case, the District need shall be 
identified. 

 

               If an adjunct unit member does not receive an assignment for any given 
semester or session, the unit member may continue to submit "Availability Statements" to 

               the appropriate administrator for up to four (4) semesters. 

 

     16.3.2 An adjunct unit member may indicate on the statement of availability that 
she/he will not be available for service for up to four (4) semesters. In such cases the 
adjunct unit member 

     shall not lose her/his place on the length of service list. (see 16.8) 

 

     16.3.3 "Availability Statements" shall be used in making decisions pursuant to Section 
16.4 below. 

 

16.4 Notification of Assignment 

 

     In offering an assignment to an adjunct unit member each semester or session, the 
District will make use of the following criteria: 

 

     (a) Availability Statements on file with the District 

 

     (b) Evaluations 

 

     (c) Length of service as defined below in 16.8.1 

 

     (d) Assignment preference as defined in 16.8.2 

 

     (e) Continuing comparable assignment 

 

     (f) Educational preparation or study, relevancy or recency of related work and 
teaching experience, in specific course or assignment. 

 

     (g) Maintenance of continuity and quality of educational programs 

 

16.5 Cancellation or Withdrawal of Tentative Assignment 

 

     Adjunct teaching assignments are made by the District on a tentative basis, subject to 
a number of institutional factors: (1) Administrative and Governing Board approval; (2) 
class size; (3) possible 

     assignment of a contract or regular instructor, as a part of a normal load, to one or 
more classes tentatively assigned to an adjunct instructor. If an assignment is canceled or 
withdrawn by the 

     District, the cancellation or withdrawal will be effective when the adjunct unit 
member is notified by the division chair or administrative dean. If the instructor is not 
notified until the day of the class 

     meeting, she/he shall be compensated for the number of hours the class meets.  If the 
instructor is notified after his/her flex commitment has been met, the instructor shall be 
compensated for the 

     hours spent meeting the flex requirements. 

 

16.6 Arbitrability 

 

     Grievances concerning the interpretation and application of Sections 16.3, 16.4, and 
16.5 are not subject to the Arbitration provisions of this Agreement. 

 

16.7 Work Load 

 

     An adjunct unit member's workload shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the 
standard full-time unit member workload (see Article 11). The following activities are 
excluded from the 

     sixty percent (60%) workload and thus are not to be calculated toward it. Such 
exclusions are not limited to this listing: 

 

          (a) classes taught for Cabrillo Community Education; 

 

          (b) service as a substitute teacher on a day-to-day basis as provided by Education 
Code Section 87482.5(b). (For purposes of definition, day-to-day substitutes are not 
required to 

          engage in long-term lesson planning, to attend department or division faculty 
meetings, to hold office hours or do final grading).  A day-to-day substitute, working 
consecutively up to 

          12% of the total hours of a single course, is paid at the rate stated in Article 13.10; 
thereafter, the day-to-day substitute will be paid at the appropriate adjunct unit pay rate, 
Article 

          13.1.2 or 13.1.3. 

 

          (c) classes taught during any summer session and winter session. 

 

16.8  Length of Service, Cabrillo College Service Credit and Assignment Preference. 

 

     16.8.1 An adjunct unit member's length of service list for each academic discipline 
shall be established and updated each semester by the District Personnel Office.  The list 
shall be based on and 

     sorted by the first date of paid temporary academic employment of each adjunct unit 
member (see also 16.3.2) and by academic discipline.  In addition, the Length of Service 
List will identify those 

     adjunct members who are currently eligible to receive benefits from the District 
(14.4), and those who currently have assignment preference (16.8.2).  These Length of 
Service Lists will be used by 

     each division chair in making assignments each semester according to 16.4.  The 
Length of Service Lists by academic discipline shall be available to an adjunct unit 
member and CCFT upon request. 

 

     16.8.2 "Cabrillo College Service Credit" means the credit toward assignment 
preference that an adjunct unit member earns for having completed one or more 
assignments in an academic discipline.  

     An adjunct unit member must serve satisfactorily for the full term of her/his 
assignment(s) in the academic discipline during one semester.  After earning eight 
semesters of Cabrillo College Service 

     Credit in an academic discipline, and upon receipt of a notification that assignment 
preference is granted by the appropriate administrator, an adjunct unit member shall have 
assignment preference in 

     that academic discipline.  Denial of assignment preference shall be based on 
evaluations or other contractual criteria as specified in 16.3.1. 

 

     16.8.3 An adjunct unit member with assignment preference in an academic discipline 
shall be offered an assignment therein before an adjunct unit member without assignment 
preference, 

     provided she/he is qualified for the assignment as noted in 16.4. 

 

     16.8.4 If, during any semester, there are more adjunct unit members with assignment 
preference than there are available assignments in an academic discipline, the available 
assignments 

     shall be offered to those adjunct faculty who are most senior according to the Length 
of Service List, provided the adjunct unit member has not lost her/his place on this list by 
failing to 

     comply with 16.3.2, and provided she/he meets the criteria specified in 16.4. 

 

          16.8.4.1 After an adjunct faculty member has been offered and has accepted an 
assignment, orally or in writing, an adjunct faculty member shall not be displaced by a 
more 

          senior adjunct faculty member. 

 

     16.8.5 An adjunct unit member shall retain her/his assignment preference unless it is 
terminated pursuant to the provisions of this article. 

 

          16.8.5.1 The assignment preference of an adjunct unit member of an academic 
discipline is terminated: 

 

               (a) if that unit member declines, after the end of the prior semester, an 
assignment during a subsequent semester, or winter or summer session, for which she/he 

               has announced an availability and which assignment has been published in the 
appropriate schedule; or does not complete an assignment after it has begun. 

 

               (b) if the President or her/his designee concludes that the adjunct unit member 
does not meet the standards of performance and academic excellence that are 

               required of certificated employees by the District, and the re-evaluation process 
(16.9.6) has been completed. 

 

          16.8.5.2 The assignment preference of an adjunct unit member in a division shall 
not be terminated if: 

 

               (a) an assignment is cancelled because of low enrollment; 

 

               (b) an assignment is withdrawn to fill the load of a contract member; 

 

               (c) the adjunct unit member is unable to accept or commence an assignment 
because of verifiable illness or other extenuating circumstances which the member 

               and the appropriate division chair mutually agree make acceptance or 
commencement impossible. 

 

               (d) the adjunct unit member has notified the division chair of temporary 
unavailability according to 16.3.2. 

 

          16.8.5.3 An adjunct unit member who has lost assignment preference may later re-
qualify according to 16.8.2. 

 

16.9 Evaluation 

 

     16.9.1 Adjunct faculty shall be evaluated during the first and third semesters worked 
and once every two years thereafter pursuant to the purpose and criteria set forth in 
Articles 17.2 and 17.3.  The 

     frequency of evaluations shall become once every three years after the unit member 
achieves assignment preference (see 17.4.4). 

 

     16.9.2 Adjunct faculty shall be evaluated according to the scheduled times set forth in 
Article 17.5. 

 

     16.9.3 Adjunct unit members teaching seven (7) or more units per semester may 
request, in writing, and shall be evaluated pursuant to Article 17.6. Absent a written 
request from the 

     instructor for an evaluation pursuant to Article 17.6, the instructor shall be evaluated 
according to Article 17.7.2. 

 

     16.9.4 Adjunct unit members teaching fewer than seven (7) units shall be evaluated by 
the appropriate administrator or her/his designee. The procedures shall be the same as 
outlined in 

     Article 17.5, except that the appropriate administrator shall be solely responsible for 
the final written evaluation. 

 

     16.9.5 During the evaluation of a adjunct unit member, the appropriate administrator, 
or designee, shall make at least one (1) classroom/worksite visitation. This visitation shall 
be 

     conducted according to the procedure outlined in Article 17.6.5. 

 

     16.9.6 If, during the period between regularly scheduled evaluations of an adjunct 
member, the work of that member shall be determined, in the judgment of the appropriate 
administrator, 

     to be less than satisfactory, that administrator may elect to follow the following 
process to initiate an evaluation: 

 

          (a) inform the adjunct member by written notice of her/his concerns and the 
reasons therefore; 

 

          (b) within ten (10) working days of receipt of the written notice, the appropriate 
administrator shall schedule a meeting with the adjunct member to discuss these concerns 
and 

          opportunities for improvement; 

 

          (c) schedule an evaluation of the adjunct member before her/his next regularly-
scheduled evaluation if, in the judgment of the administrator, sufficient improvement is 
not 

          made. 

 

16.10 Salary 

 

     Adjunct unit members shall be compensated according to the salary schedule attached 
as Appendix G. 

 

16.11 Health and Welfare Benefits 

 

     See Article 14 Section 4. 

 

16.12 Office Hours 

 

     Adjunct unit members are required to hold pro rata office hours.  See Articles 8.6 and 
11.1.3. 

 

16.13 Other Procedures 

 

     Except as otherwise provided in this Article, all other provisions in this Agreement 
apply equally to adjunct unit members on a pro rata basis except Sabbatical Leave, 
Article 10.7 (Leave 

     Without Pay for Child Bearing Preparation and Child Rearing), Article 10.10  

 

     (Exchange Teaching Leave), Article 10.11 (Military Leave), Article 10.13 (Other 
Leaves Without Pay), Article 15 (Layoffs), and Article 18 (Retirement). 

 

16.14 Conference Attendance 

 

     An adjunct instructor may submit a request to attend a professional conference 
following established District procedures. Approved conference attendance shall 
comprise part of the 

     adjunct instructor's regular duties and the instructor shall receive no additional 
compensation for professional conference attendance. An adjunct instructor may request 
expense 

     reimbursement for approved conference attendance in accordance with District policy 
(see Section 9.3.1). 

 

16.15 At the request of an adjunct instructor, the District shall make a reasonable effort to 
assign voice mail and email accounts. 

Article 17 

Evaluation and Tenure 

 

 

17.1 Definitions  

 

     17.1.1 For the purpose of this Article, "contract instructor" means a bargaining unit 
member who is employed on the basis of a contract in accordance with the provisions of 
Education 

     Code Section 87605 or Section 87608(b). A "contract instructor" is a probationary 
employee. A "contract instructor" is commonly referred to as "probationary faculty" at 
Cabrillo 

     College.  

 

     17.1.2 "Regular instructor" means a tenured bargaining unit member who is employed 
in accordance with the provisions of Education Code Section 87608(c) or Section 87609.   

 

     17.1.3 "Temporary instructor" means a bargaining unit member employed in 
accordance with Education Code Section 87478, 87480, 87481 or 87482. A "temporary 
instructor" is 

     commonly referred to as "adjunct faculty" at Cabrillo College.  

 

     17.1.4 "Temporary contract instructor" means a bargaining unit member employed in 
accordance with Education Code sections 87470, 87481, or 87482.  

 

     17.1.5 "Appropriate administrator" means the Division Chair, in relation to teaching, 
counseling, and library faculty, or the Vice President, Student Services, or a Dean of 
Instruction, or the 

     Vice President, Instruction and/or the Superintendent/President, if they are the 
immediate supervisor of the unit member.  

 

17.2 Purpose  

 

The primary purpose of the evaluation of academic personnel is the continued 
improvement of instruction at Cabrillo College. Other purposes include the maintenance 
of quality in programs and 

instruction, and the professional competence of the faculty. The evaluation process shall 
promote professionalism, enhance performance, and be closely linked with professional 
growth efforts.  

 

17.3 Criteria  

 

     1. Classroom or Job Performance  

 

          The faculty member demonstrates effective performance in classroom teaching or 
in carrying out other primary responsibilities and assignments including:  

 

               a. currency and depth of knowledge of teaching field or job duties;  

 

               b. proficiency in written and oral English enabling clear, effective 
communication to students, staff, and colleagues;  

 

               c. use of teaching or job specific methods and materials challenging to the 
student and appropriate to the subject matter, responsive to the needs of students, and 

               consistent with curriculum requirements and coordination/sequencing; this is 
not intended to discourage use within a department of a variety of successful 

               pedagogical approaches to learning;  

 

               d. careful attention to effective organizational skills in the classroom or work 
site;  

 

               e. provision to students of appropriate class materials including a course 
syllabus with course outlines, course objectives, method of assessment, grading criteria 

               and other classroom policies;  

 

               f. appropriate measurement of student progress;   

 

               g. evidence of course objectives being met; and  

 

               h. in the case of contract, temporary contract, and regular faculty, consistent 
responsibility in fulfilling official college requirements, including, as a baseline, those 

               outside-the-classroom assignments such as attending division and department 
meetings, participating on search and selection committees, participation on 

               evaluations teams, contributing to curriculum development, participating in 
program planning, and participating in college governance as needed.  

 

     2. Students  

 

          Faculty members shall demonstrate:  

 

               a. patience, fairness, and promptness in the evaluation and discussion of student 
work;  

 

               b. respect for and responsiveness to needs of a diverse student population and 
their special circumstances where appropriate;  

 

               c. maintenance of contractual obligations to hold regular and timely office 
hours;  

 

               d. respect for the right of students to voice opinions and concerns;  

 

               e. willingness and availability to assist students; and  

 

               f. respect for students' rights as outlined in the Student Rights and 
Responsibilities Handbook.  

 

     3. Colleagues  

 

          Faculty members shall show respect for colleagues and the teaching profession by:  

 

               a. acknowledging and defending the free inquiry of their associates in the 
exchange of critique and ideas;  

 

               b. respecting the right of others to express a variety of opinions;  

 

               c. acknowledging academic debts (credit works to avoid plagiarism);  

 

               d. acknowledging achievements and areas in need of improvement;  

 

               e. acting in accordance with the ethics of the profession and with a sense of 
personal integrity; and  

 

               f. acting in a manner that does not disrupt colleagues' performance of duties.  

 

     4. Professional Growth and Responsibilities  

 

          Faculty members shall demonstrate continued professional growth by:  

 

               a. continued participation in self-initiated professional activities such as course 
work, attendance at workshops, seminars, professional meetings, publications, 

               conference presentations, artistic exhibits/performances, classroom research, 
development of new curriculum, and community involvement specific to academic 

               area, and other appropriate activities; and  

 

               b. active participation in collegial governance and campus life including serving 
on committees;  

 

     5. Special Assignments or Reassigned Duties  

 

          a. perform assigned duties  

 

          b. perform appropriate recordkeeping, correspondence, coordination, and reporting  

 

17.4 Frequency of Evaluations  

 

     17.4.1 Contract probationary faculty shall be evaluated in their first, second, and third 
semesters, once in their third year, and in the fall semester of their fourth year except as 
provided by 

     17.6.10 and 17.6.11 herein.  

 

     17.4.2 Regular tenured faculty shall be evaluated once every three years, except as 
provided by 17.6.10 and 17.6.11 herein.  

 

     17.4.3 Adjunct faculty shall be evaluated during the first and third semesters and once 
every two years thereafter, except as provided in 17.6.10 and 17.6.11.  

 

     17.4.4 In the case of adjunct faculty with assignment preference, evaluations shall 
occur once every three years.  

 

     17.4.5 Temporary contract faculty shall be evaluated each semester.  

 

17.5 Procedural Timelines  

 

In order to fulfill the purpose of this Article, probationary faculty and adjunct faculty 
shall be evaluated according to the scheduled times set forth below. Whenever possible, 
the same schedule shall 

also apply to regular faculty in the semester in which they are being evaluated. Failure to 
meet a deadline in the schedule below shall not invalidate an evaluation so long as the 
entire evaluation proceeds 

on a reasonable time schedule and is completed by the last day of the semester the 
evaluation was begun. All unit members being evaluated in a particular year shall be 
notified by the end of the (4th) 

fourth week of that semester. The final evaluation shall be completed, and signed by the 
end of the semester.The team should be constituted by the sixth week of the semester.  

 

17.6 Procedure - Contract Probationary and Regular Tenured Faculty  

 

The procedure described below, including peer, student, self, and administrative 
evaluation shall culminate with a final written evaluation signed by the appropriate 
administrator.  

 

     17.6.1 Each regular tenured and contract probationary faculty member shall be 
evaluated by a team consisting of no less than two (2) academic staff including the 
appropriate 

     administrator or her/his designee, who shall chair the team. The person being 
evaluated shall select the other team faculty member. At the option of the person being 
evaluated or the 

     appropriate administrator, a third team member may be selected by the appropriate 
administrator from a list of three (3) or more division members submitted by the person 
being 

     evaluated. The team shall consist of at least one person within the discipline or field of 
the person being evaluated, when possible. The evaluation team shall have no more than 
three 

     members, and shall conduct its evaluation in confidence and according to the code of 
conduct.  

 

     17.6.2 By the end of the fourth week of each semester those contract probationary and 
regular tenured faculty who are to be evaluated that semester will be given a Notification 
of 

     Evaluation form (Appendix J or K). The person being evaluated shall complete the 
form and in so doing designate her/his choice for the evaluation team.  

 

     17.6.3 The appropriate administrator shall constitute an evaluation team for each unit 
member to be evaluated that year, according to the procedures in 17.6.1 above, and notify 
the 

     person being evaluated of the team's composition. Should the choices of the person 
being evaluated for the committee, and/or all of her/his candidates be unable to serve, the 
appropriate 

     administrator shall notify the person being evaluated and he/she shall submit within 
ten (10) calendar days the names of other candidates. If neither of these candidates is able 
to serve, the 

     appropriate administrator shall appoint the committee. The appropriate administrator 
shall form a new committee as outlined above in a timely way, and notify the person 
being evaluated.  

 

     17.6.4 Team Procedures  

 

          17.6.4.1 In the first semester of employment, the evaluation team chair for the 
contract probationary faculty member shall meet with the person being evaluated to 
discuss the 

          purpose, criteria, procedures and timelines for the evaluation.  The same procedure 
shall be used for regular faculty members being evaluated unless he/she, or a member of 

          the team requests a meeting with the entire team.  

 

          17.6.4.2 At the option of the person being evaluated or the administrator, the 
appropriate administrator shall provide copies of the person being evaluated's previous 

          evaluation to the team members.  

 

          17.6.4.3 At least 1 day prior to the classroom visitation, the person being evaluated 
shall submit to the evaluation team chair the following:  

 

               1. Materials related to the visitation, if requested by the team chair, including a 
course schedule, syllabus, exams and assignments, any materials handed out to 

               students, and any other material the person being evaluated chooses to include. 
In the case of counselors and other academic specialists, the person being 

               evaluated shall submit objectives and self-evaluation forms at this time.  

 

               2. Faculty Self-Evaluation  

 

               A completed self-evaluation form. The Cabrillo College Self-Evaluation Form 
(Appendix L) is available through the Personnel Office.  

 

          17.6.4.4 If no meeting for regular tenured faculty is held, the appropriate 
administrator shall have the responsibility to set timelines and distribute relevant 
materials.  

 

     17.6.5 Classroom/Worksite Visit  

 

          17.6.5.1 The class or worksite visitations shall occur after at least one week's prior 
notice. Each evaluator shall make at least one class visitation or worksite observation and 

          complete the appropriate evaluation form and return the form to the appropriate 
administrator. The criteria in section 17.3 shall be considered in writing the evaluation. 
Every 

          attempt will be made for the evaluators to observe different class sections or 
courses.  

 

          17.6.5.2 In the case of counselors and other academic specialists, worksite 
visitation shall occur in classes, in group sessions, or activities relevant to the assignment. 

          Probationary counselors may be evaluated in academic counseling sessions.  

 

          17.6.5.3 Within two weeks after the worksite or class visitation, the evaluator will 
review the visitation evaluation form with the person being evaluated.  

 

     17.6.6 Student Evaluations  

 

          17.6.6.1 At a time agreed to by the person being evaluated and the administrator, 
student evaluation forms shall be distributed and collected by the evaluator(s) or designee 
in 

          at least two of the classes of the person being evaluated. In order to maintain 
student confidentiality, the student evaluation documents will not be returned to the 
instructor 

          until the submission of grades.  

 

          17.6.6.2 Academic staff not assigned to classroom teaching shall distribute the 
appropriate forms to their students over the two week period of evaluation. The 
appropriate 

          administrator shall be responsible for the collection of the forms. The collected 
forms shall be submitted to the evaluation team by the administrator.  

 

     17.6.7 Team Meeting and Recommendation  

 

          17.6.7.1 Probationary Faculty  

 

          Upon completion of the probationary instructor's classroom/worksite visits, student 
evaluations, and submission of, materials listed in 17.6.4.3, the evaluation team chair or 

          appropriate administrator will review all materials and prepare a draft 
recommendation.  The draft recommendation shall be given to the evaluation team for 
review, revision 

          or approval.  Any documented/investigated complaints or concerns or 
commendations that have been previously shared with the employee in a timely manner 
and are 

          deemed to have merit by the evaluation team shall be included in the draft 
recommendation.  Additional information from the contract probationary instructor may 
be 

          requested. If in the judgment of the team, the work of the person being evaluated is 
less than satisfactory, the committee may recommend to the appropriate administrator 

          reevaluation the following semester, an administrative evaluation, or non-
reemployment.  Upon receiving direction from the evaluation team, the appropriate 
administrator shall 

          be responsible for preparing a final written evaluation. The appropriate 
administrator shall then meet with the person being evaluated to discuss all matters 
pertinent to her/his 

          evaluation.  At the option of the person being evaluated, or any member of the 
team, the entire team may be convened to discuss the prepared evaluation.  

 

          17.6.7.2 Regular Instructor  

 

          After completion of a regular instructor's classroom/worksite visitation, student 
evaluations, and submission of materials listed in 17.6.4.3, the team chair or appropriate 

          administrator shall review the materials, and prepare a draft recommendation.  The 
draft recommendation shall be given to the evaluation team for review, revision, or 

          approval.  If in the judgment of the team, the work of the person being evaluated is 
less than satisfactory, the committee may recommend to the appropriate administrator 

          reevaluation the following semester, or administrative evaluation.  After receiving 
direction from the team, the appropriate administrator shall meet with the person being 

          evaluated to discuss all matters pertinent to her/his evaluation.  At the option of the 
person being evaluated, or any member of the team, the entire team may be convened to 

          discuss the prepared evaluation.  

 

          17.6.7.3 The person being evaluated may bring any materials she/he chooses.  

 

          17.6.7.4 In the event that the person being evaluated questions the content of the 
summary of the student evaluations, an impartial committee consisting of an 
administrator 

          selected by the appropriate administrator and a faculty member selected by the 
person being evaluated, may review the summary and provide a separate summary of the 

          student evaluations which will become part of the evaluation records.  The 
confidentiality of the process shall be maintained at all times.  

 

     17.6.8 Final Written Evaluation  

 

          17.6.8.1 Based upon the information gathered throughout the process, the 
appropriate administrator shall prepare a final written evaluation according to the criteria 
listed in 

          17.3. If in the judgment of the appropriate administrator, work of the regular 
tenured faculty member being evaluated is less than satisfactory, she/he shall recommend 
to the 

          Vice President, Instruction or Vice President, Student Services or their designee 
either a reevaluation the following semester at the division level, or an administrative 

          evaluation. If in the judgment of the appropriate administrator, the work of the 
contract probationary faculty member is less than satisfactory, she/he shall recommend to 
the 

          Vice President, Instruction, or Vice President, Student Services, or their designee 
either a reevaluation the following semester at the division level, an administrative 

          evaluation, or non-reemployment. If the fourth year final written evaluation of a 
contract probationary faculty member indicates satisfactory performance, the granting of 

          tenure shall be recommended to the Vice President, Instruction or the Vice 
President, Student Services.  

 

          Under extraordinary circumstances, tenure may be granted after the first, second, or 
third probationary year upon agreement of the Superintendent/President and the Faculty 

          Senate if the Governing Board approves of the decision to grant tenure.  

 

          17.6.8.2 The appropriate administrator shall provide each team member with a 
copy of the final written evaluation for review. This review shall be acknowledged by 

          signature. Within five working days, the team member may submit a written 
response to the evaluation, which shall be attached to it. Within eight (8) work days after 
receipt 

          of the final evaluation document, the person being evaluated may submit a written 
response to the evaluation, which shall be attached to it.  

 

          17.6.8.3 In the case of contract probationary faculty, the Vice President, 
Instruction, or the Vice President, Student Services shall review information gathered in 
the 

          evaluation process and recommend to the Superintendent, President employment or 
non-reemployment of the person being evaluated. The Superintendent/President shall 

          make a final recommendation to the Governing Board. In the event that the 
recommendation of the Superintendent/President differs from the recommendation of the 

          evaluation team or the appropriate administrator, the Superintendent/President shall 
meet with the evaluation team before making a recommendation to the Governing Board.  

 

     17.6.9 Administrative Review  

 

          17.6.9.1 After signature by the team members and the person being evaluated, final 
written evaluation and attachments shall be forwarded to the Vice President, Instruction 

          or Vice President, Student Services, or designee, for review.  

 

          17.6.9.2 After review by the Vice President, Instruction or Vice President, Student 
Services, or designee, the final written evaluation and attachments shall be placed in the 

          instructor's personnel file. Copies of all materials shall be returned to the instructor.  

 

     17.6.10 Division Reevaluation  

 

          17.6.10.1 If the final written evaluation includes the recommendation that the 
regular tenured faculty member be reevaluated at the division level, the appropriate 
administrator 

          shall by the end of the sixth (6th) week of the semester following the first 
evaluation, constitute a new evaluation team according to the procedure in 17.6 above.  
The new 

          team may have the same members as the first team.  In the case of a contract 
probationary faculty member, the same team shall perform the evaluation to the extent 
possible.  

          Evaluation materials from the previous evaluation shall be made available to the 
team.  

 

          17.6.10.2 The evaluation process as outlined in 17.6 of this Article shall be 
followed in the reevaluation, except that the materials gathered in the first evaluation may 
be used 

          in the first team meeting (17.6.4) and the second team meeting (17.6.7).  

 

          17.6.10.3 The appropriate administrator shall constructively work with the person 
being evaluated to encourage improvement. The techniques involved shall include 

          consultation, and may include class visitations, literature review arrangement for 
updating of background, and any other activities deemed appropriate.  

 

     17.6.11 Administrative Evaluation  

 

          17.6.11.1 Should the final written evaluation (17.6.8) include a recommendation 
for administrative evaluation, the Vice President, Instruction or the Vice President, 
Student 

          Services, in the case of the counselors and other academic staff reporting to 
her/him, shall review and consider all of the components of the evaluation, as well as 
input from 

          others she/he feels should have direct information about the performance of the 
person being evaluated. The Vice President, Instruction, or the Vice President, Student 

          Services, in the case of the counselors and other academic staff reporting to 
her/him, may designate an academic employee of the District to perform this review. 
She/he or 

          the designee may, after prior notification, meet with the person being evaluated 
and/or visit one or more classes conducted by the person being evaluated.  

 

          17.6.11.2 After consideration of the information gathered in 17.6.11.1, the Vice 
President, Instruction, or the Vice President, Student Services, in the case of the 
counselors 

          and other academic staff reporting to her/him, or her/his designee, shall prepare a 
written administrative evaluation. If, in the judgment of the Vice President, Instruction, or 
the 

          Vice President, Student Services, in the case of the counselors and other academic 
staff reporting to her/him, or her/his designee, the work of the person being evaluated is 

          less than satisfactory, she/he shall recommend either a reevaluation the following 
semester at the division level, or another administrative evaluation or other appropriate 

          action.  

 

          17.6.11.3 The Vice President, Instruction, or the Vice President, Student Services, 
in the case of the counselors, or her/his designee, shall meet with the person being 

          evaluated and present the administrative evaluation. The person being evaluated 
shall acknowledge by signature that she/he has reviewed the document. The person being 

          evaluated may submit a written response to the evaluation, which shall be attached 
to it. If the person being evaluated receives a satisfactory evaluation, all materials except 

          the written administrative evaluation shall be returned to the person being 
evaluated.  

 

          17.6.11.4 It shall be the immediate responsibility of the appropriate administrator 
to work constructively with the person being evaluated to encourage improvement. The 

          techniques involved shall include consultation, and may include class visitations, 
literature review and arrangement for updating of background, and any other activities 
deemed 

          appropriate.  

 

17.7 Procedure - Adjunct Unit Members  

 

     17.7.1 Adjunct unit members teaching seven (7) or more units per semester may 
request in writing and shall be evaluated pursuant to 17.6 above. Absent a written request 
from the 

     instructor for an evaluation pursuant to 17.6, the instructor shall be evaluated 
according to 17.7.2.  

 

     17.7.2 Faculty teaching fewer than seven (7) units shall be evaluated by the 
appropriate administrator or her/his designee. The procedures shall be the same as 
outlined in 17.5 above, 

     except that the appropriate administrator shall solely act as the evaluation team.  

 

     17.7.3 The unit member evaluated under 17.7.2 above, may request in writing an 
evaluation by an evaluation team as designated for regular tenured faculty in 17.6 above. 
With the 

     approval of the Division Chair or other appropriate administrator, an evaluation team 
shall be constituted and shall proceed with the evaluation process in a timely manner 
pursuant to 17.5 

     above. In the case of denial, the appropriate administrator shall reply in writing giving 
her/his reasons for denial.  

 

     17.7.4 During the evaluation of an adjunct unit member, the appropriate administrator 
or designee shall make at least one (1) classroom/worksite visitation. This visitation shall 
be 

     conducted according to the procedure outlined in 17.6.5 above.  

 

17.8 Procedure - Temporary Contract Faculty  

 

     17.8.1 Temporary contract faculty shall be evaluated using the same procedures as 
regular tenured faculty according to sections 17.6.2 to 17.6.8.2.  

 

17.9 Grievances of Evaluation  

 

Evaluation procedures may be subject to the grievance procedure in accordance with 
Article 12. The content of evaluations is not subject to the grievance procedure set forth 
in Article 12 except in the 

case of a decision not to grant tenure and in accordance with education code 87610.1 and 
87611.  

 

17.10 Access to Materials  

 

Nothing in this article is intended by the parties to waive, abrogate, or otherwise 
adversely affect the legal rights to access by faculty members to their personnel files, or 
the legal rights of access by the 

CCFT to materials related to evaluation which are necessary and relevant to the Union's 
duty to represent faculty members when disagreements arise over the implementation of 
the Article.  

 

 

                                                        STATEMENT ON PROFESSIONAL ETHICS 

 

I. Community college faculty members, guided by a deep conviction of the worth and 
dignity of the advancement of knowledge, recognize the special responsibilities placed 
upon them. Their primary 

responsibility to their subjects is to seek and to state the truth as they see it. To this end 
faculty members devote their energies to developing and improving their scholarly 
competence. They accept the 

obligation to exercise critical self-discipline and judgment in using, extending, and 
transmitting knowledge. They practice intellectual honesty. Although faculty members 
may follow subsidiary interests, 

their interests must never seriously hamper or compromise their freedom of inquiry. 

 

II. As teachers, faculty members encourage the free pursuit of learning in their students. 
they hold before them the best scholarly standards of their discipline. Faculty members 
demonstrate respect for 

the student as an individual, and adhere to their proper role as intellectual guides and 
counselors. Faculty members make every reasonable effort to foster honest academic 
conduct and to assure that 

evaluation of students reflects their true merit. They respect the confidential nature of the 
relationship between faculty member and student. They avoid any exploitation of 
students for private advantage 

and acknowledge significant assistance from them. They protect the academic freedom of 
students. 

 

III. As colleagues, faculty members have obligations that derive from common 
membership in the community of scholars. Faculty members do not discriminate against 
or harass colleagues. They 

respect and defend the free inquiry of associates. In the exchange of criticism and ideas, 
faculty members show due respect for the opinions of others. Faculty members 
acknowledge their academic 

debts and strive to be objective in their professional judgment of colleagues. Faculty 
members accept their share of faculty responsibilities for the governance of their 
institution. 

 

IV. As members of an academic institution, faculty members seek above all to be 
effective teachers and scholars. Although faculty members observe the stated regulations 
of their institutions, provided 

the regulations do not contravene academic freedom, they maintain their right to criticize 
and seek revision. Faculty members give due regard to their paramount responsibilities 
within their institution in 

determining the amount and character of work done outside it. When considering the 
interruption or termination of their service, faculty members recognize the effect of their 
decisions upon the program 

of the institution and give due notice of their intentions. 

 

V. As members of their community, faculty members have the rights and obligations of 
all citizens. Faculty members measure the urgency of these obligations in the light of 
their responsibilities to their 

subject areas, to their students, to their profession, and to their institutions. When they 
speak or act as private persons, they avoid creating the impression that they speak or act 
for their colleges or 

universities. As citizens engaged in a profession that depends upon freedom for its health 
and integrity, faculty members have a particular obligation to promote conditions of free 
inquiry and to further 

public understanding of academic freedom. 

 

 

                                                       TENURE COMMITTEE CODE OF CONDUCT 

 

1. Members shall read all tenure materials and follow guidelines and procedural 
timelines. 

 

2. Members shall be professional when evaluating classroom performance and 
professional responsibility. Judgments shall be based on personally observed classroom 
behavior and evaluation 

materials, not hearsay. 

 

3. Members shall be constructive in their criticism, pointing out specific areas of 
weakness and recommending a plan for correcting those weaknesses within a reasonable 
time frame. 

 

4. Members should take care to distinguish between the candidate's professional and 
personal characteristics, between ability to teach and general lifestyle, including religious 
beliefs, sexual orientation, 

political affiliations and social customs. 

 

5. Members should recognize that the candidate may have a different philosophy of 
education and teaching style than theirs. The main concern should be the effectiveness as 
stated in criteria of the 

candidate in the classroom or worksite. 

 

6. Members who feel unable to objectively evaluate or be unbiased toward a candidate 
should disqualify themselves. 

 

7. Members should respect the confidentiality of the tenure process, with evaluations and 
the views of members regarded as private information. 

 

 

Article 18 

Retirement 

18.1 At least once each year the District shall hold a forum for employees interested in 
retirement.  The forum shall review the retirement provision of the contract.  

 

18.2 "Faculty Emeritus" status to include the following regular faculty privileges:  

 

     (a) staff parking without charge;   

 

     (b) free admission to designated college-sponsored athletic events, concerts, or plays;  

 

     (c) library privileges; and  

 

     (d) upon request, email privileges and/or a mail folder in the mail room.  

 

18.3 Medical and Dental Benefits  

 

     The District shall provide the cost of the same medical insurance coverage as provided 
regular unit members for any unit member who retires with ten (10) years of service. This 
coverage 

     shall include the retiree's spouse or principal domestic partner and continue until the 
retiree reaches the age of sixty-five (65). Once a retiree has reached age sixty-five (65) 
and until 

     reaching the age of seventy (70), to the extent possible within the retiree pool 
available to the District,* the District shall provide the cost of medical insurance for the 
retiree only, in an 

     amount equal to the rate when the retiree was at age sixty-four (64).  As soon as any 
retiree qualifies for Medicare, the District shall not be responsible for providing private 
medical 

     coverage but shall provide the "Carve Out" plan for the retiree to age 70.  After age 
seventy (70), the retiree may continue such coverage at her/his own expense. Any 
additional costs for 

     the coverage shall be paid by the retiree. At the time of retirement, retirees shall have 
the option to continue their and their spouse's or principal domestic partner's dental 
coverage at the 

     retiree's expense.  

 

* NOTE: Should the District not be able to provide the similar health coverage within the 
retiree pool, then this issue shall be opened for negotiations immediately.   

 

18.4 Retiree's Survivors Medical and Dental Benefits   

 

     18.4.1 Survivors (spouse or principal domestic partner and dependent children) of 
retired unit members have the option of remaining on the District health and dental 
insurance plan at their 

     own expense.  

 

     18.4.2 The monthly premium must be reimbursed to the District one month in 
advance. Coverage will terminate forty-five (45) days after receipt of the last premium 
payment or upon 

     termination notice or on survivor's remarriage.  

 

18.5 Preretirement (refer to Side Letter 2001-02.7)  

 

     18.5.1 Under this program, unit members may be permitted to reduce their work year 
from full-time to part-time as authorized by law and to have their retirement benefits 
based on 

     full-time employment. In order to qualify for this program, the unit member shall meet 
the following requirements:  

 

     18.5.2 The unit member must have reached the age of fifty-five (55) prior to the first 
day of the semester in which reduced-time employment is requested and must submit a 
request in 

     writing to the Personnel Office ninety (90) days prior to the beginning of the semester 
in which the preretirement program is to be effective.   

 

     18.5.3 Length of participation in the preretirement program shall not exceed ten (10) 
years as specified in Ed Code 87483 for employees subject to Section 22713 of the 
Government 

     Code and shall not exceed five (5) years for employees subject to Section 20815 of the 
Government Code. Unit members requesting preretirement must have been employed 
full-time, at 

     a regular contract of 60% or more, in an academic position for at least ten (10) years, 
including the immediately preceding five (5) years. Sabbatical leave or other approved 
leaves shall 

     not be considered to be a break in service. The period of part-time employment 
pursuant to this policy shall not extend beyond the end of the school year in which the 
unit member 

     reaches her/his seventieth (70th) birthday.  

 

     18.5.4 Part-time employment and the specific assignment shall be by mutual 
agreement between the unit member and the District. After the completion of one (1) full 
year in the 

     preretirement program, the unit member may return to full-time duty provided notice 
has been given by the unit member to the personnel administrator no later than May 1 of 
the first year 

     in the plan. Thereafter, return to full-time duty may be accomplished by mutual 
agreement of the unit member and the District.  

 

     18.5.5  The minimum service for the unit member shall be equivalent of one-half of a 
full-time load or one-half of the number of days of service required for the academic 
year.  

 

     18.5.6 The unit member shall receive the salary which is the pro rata share of the 
salary earned if she/he continued in full-time employment. The unit member shall retain 
all other rights and 

     benefits for which she/he provides the payment which would be required if in full-
time employment, including retirement contributions paid by the unit member and the 
District. Both the 

     District and unit member shall make retirement contributions in the same manner, as if 
the unit member were earning a full salary.  

 

     18.5.7 The unit member shall receive the same benefits (specified in Article 13 of this 
Agreement) as a full-time unit member. All leave benefits afforded to a unit member 
shall be earned 

     by the pre-retiree on a pro rata basis.  

 

 

Article 19 

Personnel Records 

19.1 Personnel records will be kept for each bargaining unit member in compliance with 
the California Education Code. Such records shall pertain directly to the employment 
relationship between the 

unit member and the District. Each personnel record shall be identified by the unit 
member's name and Social Security number. The personnel file of each unit member 
shall be maintained at the 

District's Personnel Office in compliance with the California Education Code. 

 

19.1.1 As provided by Section 12.2.2, all documents dealing with the processing of a 
grievance shall be filed separately from the personnel files of any grievant. 

 

19.2 Only the appropriate administrator may place derogatory materials in a unit 
member's personnel file. A unit member shall be provided with copies of any derogatory 
material nine (9) work days 

before it is placed in her/his personnel file. The unit member shall be given an 
opportunity during the regular business hours of the Personnel Office and without loss of 
pay to review and initial the 

material. If a unit member is unable to be present during the regular business hours of the 
Personnel Office, the District will make a reasonable accommodation for such review. 
Any written response 

prepared by the unit member, or her/his designee, shall be attached to the material and 
placed in the personnel file. 

 

     19.2.1 If, after review of the unit member's written response, the appropriate 
administrator decides not to retain the derogatory material, it shall be destroyed in the 
presence of the unit 

     member. 

 

     19.2.2 A unit member or the District may place in the personnel file any material 
information relevant to her/his career or advancement. 

 

     19.2.3 Any material placed in a unit member's file shall be signed and dated and shall 
also indicate the date of such placement. 

 

     19.2.4 Complaints from students, parents, citizens or non-supervisory or non-
management employees of the District, shall be investigated by an appropriate 
administrator. Should the 

     appropriate administrator find substance to the complaint, and should the appropriate 
administrator feel that the complaint should become a part of the unit member's personnel 
file, then 

     the appropriate administrator shall reduce the complaint to writing and follow the 
procedures of this Article to place the derogatory material in the unit member's personnel 
file. 

 

19.3 A unit member shall have the right at any reasonable time and without loss of pay, 
to examine and/or obtain copies of any material from the unit member's personnel file, 
with the exception of 

material that includes ratings, reports, or records which were obtained prior to the 
employment of the unit member involved. Such preemployment materials shall be sealed 
and filed in the personnel file. 

 

19.4 All personnel files shall be kept in confidence and shall be available for inspection 
only by the appropriate administrator of the District. The District shall keep a log 
indicating the persons who have 

examined a personnel file as well as the date such examinations were made. Such log and 
the unit member's personnel file shall be available for examination by the unit member, 
or her/his CCFT 

representative if authorized by the unit member. The log shall be maintained in the unit 
member's personnel file. The custodians of the personnel files engaged in routine filing of 
documents, shall not be 

required to enter their names on such logs. 

 

19.5 Each unit member shall provide the personnel office with their mailing address 
which must be different from that of the college, and phone number when available. Each 
unit member shall inform 

the personnel office of any changes in her/his name, mailing address or phone number. 

 

19.6 The District will only release information to creditors or other persons upon proper 
identification of the inquirer and acceptable reasons for the inquiry. Information then 
given from personnel files 

shall be limited to verification of employment, length of employment and verification and 
disclosure of salary range information. Release of more specific information may be 
authorized in writing by the 

unit member. 

 

19.7 Except as provided for in the California Education Code, and except for egregious 
matters which do not require progressive discipline, no adverse action of any kind shall 
be taken against an 

employee based upon materials which are not in her/his personnel file. 

 

19.8 Derogatory material which has been placed in the file, shall be sealed after four (4) 
years, and thereafter shall not be used in any adverse action against the unit member. 

 

19.9  The District shall require a unit member to acknowledge the entry of any document 
into her/his personnel file. This acknowledgment in no way indicates that the unit 
member agrees with or admits to the material being 

entered, rather it merely signifies that the unit member has had the opportunity to review 
the material. 

 

 

Article 20 

Completion of Meet and Negotiation 

20.1 The parties expressly waive and relinquish the right to meet and negotiate with 
respect to any subject or matter whether or not referred to or covered in this Agreement 
except by mutual 

agreement by both parties. 

 

 

Article 21 

Duration of Agreement 

21.1 The parties agree to a three-year agreement effective July 1, 2001 through June 30, 
2004, upon ratification by the parties. 

 

 

Article 22 

No Strike, Work Stoppage or Lockout 

22.1 It is agreed and understood that there will be no strike or work stoppage by CCFT, 
its officers or bargaining unit members during the term of this Agreement. 

 

22.2 The CCFT recognizes the duty and obligation of its representatives to comply with 
the provisions of this Agreement and agrees to make every effort toward inducing all unit 
members to do so. 

 

22.3 In the event the CCFT violates this Article, the District shall be entitled to withdraw 
any rights, privileges, or services provided to CCFT in the Agreement. 

 

22.4 The CCFT expressly agrees that the District has a right to enforce this provision in a 
court of law without recourse to arbitration or the procedures of the California Public 
Employment Relations 

Board. 

 

22.5 The District shall not engage in a lockout during the term of this Agreement. 

 

 

Article 23 

Savings Provision 

23.1 If any provisions of this Agreement are held to be contrary to law by a court of 
competent jurisdiction, such provisions will not be deemed valid and subsisting except to 
the extent permitted by 

law, but all other provisions will continue in full force and effect. 

 

 

Article 24 

Reopening of Negotiations and 

Specific Provisions of Agreement 

Not withstanding the waiver of the duty to negotiate in Article 20 herein, the parties 
specifically agree to reopen the meet and negotiate process during the term of this 
Agreement as follows: 

 

24.1 During the 2001-02 fiscal year, the parties will reopen the following: 

 

     24.1.1 Related to the instructional division reorganization:  

 

          24.1.1.1 Article 11.9, Academic Program Directors 

 

          24.1.1.2 Contract reference to Division Chair 

 

     24.1.2 Articles 17.4, 17.5, 17.6 and 17.7 of Article 17, Evaluation and Tenure 

 

     24.1.3 The academic calendar for implementation in 2002-03 

 

     24.1.4 No other openers are authorized except by mutual agreement. 

 

24.2 During the 2002-03 fiscal year, the parties will reopen the academic calendar for 
implementation in 2003-04.  No other openers are authorized except by mutual 
agreement. 

 

Signed and entered into this           day of                  , 2001. 

 

For the District                                               For CCFT 

Pegi Ard                                                         John deValcourt 

Claire Biancalana                                            Michael Mangin 

Mary Cardenas                                               Michele Rivard 

Manuel Osorio                                                 Alex Taurke 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

APPENDICES 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

8/01 

Appendix A 

Adjunct Faculty 

Hours of sick leave to be deducted for each  

hour of class missed in the following: 

 
Lecture............................................................. 1.00 
Lab or studio art ..............................................   .75 
Laboratory (as specified in 11.2.2.5)...............   .80 
Physical Education ..........................................   .75 
Nursing Clinic .................................................   .80 
 

 

 

 

 

Appendix B 

Contract Faculty 

Hours of leave to be deducted for absences: 

1 
8.00 

2 
4.00 
8.00 

Hours of scheduled duties (including office hours) 
6 
1.25 
2.75 
4.00 
5.25 
6.75 
8.00 

5 
1.50 
3.25 
4.75 
6.50 
8.00 

4 
2.00 
4.00 
6.00 
8.00 

3 
2.75 
5.25 
8.00 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

Hours of leave 
to be deducted 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

7 
1.25 
2.25 
3.50 
4.50 
5.75 
6.75 
8.00 

 
 
 
 
 

8 
1.00 
2.00 
3.00 
4.00 
5.00 
6.00 
7.00 
8.00 

 
 
 
 

9 
1.00 
1.75 
2.75 
3.50 
4.50 
5.25 
6.25 
7.00 
8.00 

 
 
 

10 
.75 
1.50 
2.50 
3.00 
4.00 
4.75 
5.50 
6.50 
7.25 
8.00 

 
 

11 
.75 
1.50 
2.25 
3.00 
3.75 
4.25 
5.00 
5.75 
6.50 
7.25 
8.00 

 

12 
.75 
1.25 
2.00 
2.75 
3.25 
4.00 
4.75 
5.25 
6.00 
6.75 
7.25 
8.00 

8/20/01 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Hours 
absent 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Appendix E 

 

Writing Factor Program 

 
 
The purpose of this appendix is to define the conditions under which Article 11.2.2.10 will be implemented. 
 
 
 1.  Courses from any department except English may receive Writing Factor credit provided they meet the 
conditions specified in this contract. The English Department is exempt due to the Composition Factor 
specified in 11.2.2.8. 

 
 
 2.  A subcommittee of the Curriculum Committee shall determine whether any new courses submitted for 
inclusion in the Writing Factor Program meet the criteria set forth in Article 11.2.2.10 of this contract. 
The committee shall compile a waiting list of qualified new courses arranged in order of approval. 

8/20/01 

  Anthropology 2, 6, 7, 8, 9A, 9B, 9C, 11, 16 
  ECE 31/131, 32   
  History 2A, 2B, 4A, 4B, 14, 15, 16C, 17A, 17B, 18, 19A, 19B, 19C, 20A-Z, 21A, 21B, 29A, 29B,  
  39A-Z, 39B 
  Philosophy 39, 49 
  Political Science 1, 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 3.  List of Writing Factor courses approved as of 2001-02: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Appendix F

Cabrillo College

Contract / Regular Faculty Salary Schedule

2001 - 2002
(Annual Rate)

Effective August 27, 2001

Salary Schedule increased by 8% over 2000/01.
This schedule based on availability of State funds for part-time faculty compensation.
This schedule will not be used as the basis for contract period 2002/03 if State funds for part-time faculty 
compensation are not available for that year.  See Side Letter 2001-02.6.
Class >

3

4

1

2

5

6

BA or Specific

MA/MS

MA/MS

MA/MS

MA/MS

MA/MS

Minimum

Requirements
             
42,779
44,409
             
             
46,461
             
48,515
50,567
             
             
52,620
             
54,677
56,727
             
             
58,780
60,834
             
             
60,834
             
60,834
60,834
             
             
60,834

Step

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26

Doctorate Stipend: $2,856

Note: Step 9 is the maximum initial salary placement for academic year.

+ 15 Units

+ 30 Units

+ 45 Units

+ 60 Units

             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             

44,160
45,776
47,828
49,881
51,935
53,988
56,044
58,095
60,147
62,204
62,204
62,204
62,204
62,204

(BA + 45 Units)
             
45,541
47,141
             
             
49,195
             
51,250
53,304
             
             
55,358
             
57,408
59,464
             
             
61,516
63,569
             
             
63,569
             
63,569
63,569
             
             
63,569

(BA + 60 Units)
             
46,925
48,510
             
             
50,562
             
52,617
54,673
             
             
56,727
             
58,778
60,831
             
             
62,884
64,936
             
             
65,682
             
66,429
67,175
             
             
67,922
             
68,671
70,036
             

(BA + 75 Units)
             
48,308
49,878
             
             
51,931
             
53,985
56,039
             
             
58,091
             
60,144
62,202
             
             
64,255
66,306
             
             
67,258
             
68,210
69,163
             
             
70,115
             
71,087
71,682
             
             
72,298
             
72,914
73,530
             
             
74,144
75,604
             

(BA + 90 Units)
             
49,689
51,244
             
             
53,298
             
55,351
57,403
             
             
59,459
             
61,512
63,564
             
             
65,619
67,672
             
             
68,828
             
69,985
71,141
             
             
72,296
             
73,457
74,278
             
             
75,100
             
75,921
76,742
             
             
77,567
             
78,387
79,209
             
             
80,030
             
80,851
81,671
             
             
83,231

 8/29/01

Appendix G.2

Cabrillo College

Adjunct Academic Specialist Salary Schedule

2001 - 2002

(Rate Per Unit)

Effective August 27, 2001

Salary Schedule increased by 8% plus $552K applied to cap
This schedule based on availability of State funds for part-time faculty compensation.
This schedule will not be used as the basis for contract period 2002/03 if State funds for part-time faculty 
compensation are not available for that year.  See Side Letter 2001-02.6.
4

Class >

3

5

6

1

2

Step

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

BA or Specific

Minimum

MA/MS

Requirements
               
1,141
1,184
               
               
1,239
               
1,294
1,348
               
               
1,403
               
1,458
               
1,513
1,567
               
               
1,622
               
1,622
1,622
               
Doctorate Stipend: $77 per unit

               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               

1,178
1,221
1,275
1,330
1,385
1,440
1,495
1,549
1,604
1,659
1,659
1,659

MA/MS
+ 15 Units

(BA + 45 Units)
               
1,214
1,257
               
               
1,312
               
1,367
1,421
               
               
1,476
               
1,531
               
1,586
1,640
               
               
1,695
               
1,695
1,695
               

MA/MS
+ 30 Units

(BA + 60 Units)
               
1,251
1,294
               
               
1,348
               
1,403
1,458
               
               
1,513
               
1,567
               
1,622
1,677
               
               
1,707
               
1,707
1,707
               

MA/MS
+ 45 Units

(BA + 75 Units)
               
1,288
1,330
               
               
1,385
               
1,440
1,494
               
               
1,549
               
1,604
               
1,659
1,707
               
               
1,707
               
1,707
1,707
               

MA/MS
+ 60 Units

(BA + 90 Units)
               
1,325
1,367
               
               
1,421
               
1,476
1,531
               
               
1,586
               
1,640
               
1,695
1,707
               
               
1,707
               
1,707
1,707
               

Note: Step 9 is the maximum initial salary placement per CCFT contract, article 13.2.3.
Note: One unit equals 2.4 hours per week per semester plus one hour of flex.

 8/29/01

Appendix G.1

Cabrillo College

Adjunct Faculty Salary Schedule

2001 - 2002

(Rate Per Unit)

Effective August 27, 2001

Salary Schedule increased by 8% plus $552K applied to cap
This schedule based on availability of State funds for part-time faculty compensation.
This schedule will not be used as the basis for contract period 2002/03 if State funds for part-time faculty 
compensation are not available for that year.  See Side Letter 2001-02.6.

Class >

1

BA or Specific

Minimum

2

MA/MS

Step

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

Requirements
883
                  
856
916
                  
888
957
929
                  
998
                  
970
1,039
               
1,011
1,080
1,052
               
1,121
               
1,094
1,162
               
1,135
1,203
1,176
               
1,244
               
1,217
1,244
               
1,217
               
1,244
1,217
Doctorate Stipend: $57 per unit

                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               

3

MA/MS

+ 15 Units

(BA + 45 Units)
                  
911
                  
943
984
                  
               
1,025
               
1,066
1,107
               
               
1,148
               
1,189
1,230
               
               
1,271
               
1,271
1,271
               

4

MA/MS

+ 30 Units

(BA + 60 Units)
                  
938
                  
970
1,011
               
               
1,052
               
1,093
1,135
               
               
1,176
               
1,217
1,258
               
               
1,280
               
1,280
1,280
               

5

MA/MS

+ 45 Units

(BA + 75 Units)
                  
966
                  
998
1,039
               
               
1,080
               
1,121
1,162
               
               
1,203
               
1,244
1,280
               
               
1,280
               
1,280
1,280
               

6

MA/MS

+ 60 Units

(BA + 90 Units)
                  
994
               
1,025
1,066
               
               
1,107
               
1,148
1,189
               
               
1,230
               
1,271
1,280
               
               
1,280
               
1,280
1,280
               

Note: Step 9 is the maximum initial salary placement per CCFT contract, article 13.2.3.

 8/29/01

Appendix H.1

CABRILLO COLLEGE

CHILDREN'S CENTER TEACHER SALARY SCHEDULE

2001-2002

Effective August 2001

Salary schedule increased by 8% over 2000-01 schedule.
This schedule will not be used as the basis for contract period 2002/03 if State funds for part-time faculty compensation are 
not available for that year.  See Side Letter 2001-02.6.

190 Day Contract

STEP

Class I

Class II

Class III

Class IV

At least 60 units to 
include a California 
Child Dev. Teacher 

At least 75 units to 
include a California 
Child Dev. Teacher 

Permit

Permit

At least 90 units to 
include a California 
Child Dev. Master 
Teacher Permit

At least a BA to 

include a California 
Child Dev. Master 
Teacher Permit

21,888
22,750
23,656
24,583
25,546

28,712
29,861
31,051
32,295
33,585
34,928
34,928

21,046
21,888
22,750
23,656

 

 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

 

 

 

29,440
30,454
31,669
32,937
34,251
35,627
37,048
37,048
37,048
37,048
37,048
38,471

Approved by Governing Board 6/4/01 (schedule revised to reflect 8% increase 8/01)
m:\ccft\01-04 contract\01-02 Children's Ctr Tchr Sal Sched.xls

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Date:    

 

 
(Division Chair) 

 semester.  Please 
 so that the evaluation 

 
To:    
 
From:    
 
 
Pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement between the District and CCFT, contract probationary faculty are 
evaluated once during each of their first three semesters, once in their third year, and in the fall semester of their 
fourth year, prior to the granting of regular status.  Regular tenured faculty are evaluated once every three years. 
 
This is an evaluation period for you, and you will be evaluated during the  
provide the following information and return this form to me no later than  
may proceed in a timely manner. 
 
If you have any questions concerning the evaluation process, please refer to Article 17 – Evaluation, of the CCFT 
collective bargaining agreement. 
 
Evaluation Team 
You will be evaluated by a team consisting of no less than two (2) academic staff, including the appropriate 
administrator or his/her designee, who shall chair the team.  You shall select the other team member.  The team shall 
consist of at least one person within the discipline or field of the person being evaluated, whenever possible.  At the 
option of you or the appropriate administrator, a third team member may be selected by the appropriate 
administrator from a list of three (3) or more division members submitted by you. 
 
Please indicate your selection for the evaluation team: 
 
Team Faculty Member  
 
 
 
Please list three members from your Division from which a third team member could be selected: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Optional Team Member:  Is a third team member requested?   
 
Acknowledgement 
I acknowledge that I have received a Notification of Evaluation 
 
 
 
Date:    
 

 
 
Division 

 
 
Name   

Signed:  

  No   

Yes   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix J 

 

Notification of Evaluation 

Contract and Regular Faculty 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Date:    

  semester. 

 
(Division Chair) 

 
 
To:    
 
From:    
 
 
 
Pursuant to the collective bargaining agreement between the District and CCFT, adjunct faculty are evaluated during 
the first and third semesters, and once every two years thereafter.  This is an evaluation period for you, and you will 
be evaluated during the   
 
 
If you have any questions concerning the evaluation process, please refer to Article 17 - Evaluation, of the CCFT 
collective bargaining agreement. 
 
 
Please acknowledge that you have received this Notice of Evaluation by signing where indicated below and 
returning a copy of this form to me by   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledgement 
I acknowledge that I have received a Notification of Evaluation, and I understand that I will be evaluated during the  
 
 
 
 
 
Date:    
 

 semester. 

Signed:  

 

 

. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix K 

 

Notification of Evaluation 

Adjunct Faculty 

 

 

 

Academic Employee Final Written Evaluation 

Appendix L 

 

 
 

 

 

 

by 

Evaluation: 

Period 

Covered 

______________________________________________ 

Name: 
__________________ 
 
The following statement is prepared as a summary of the performance of the academic employee in his/her area of 
assignment:  (attach additional pages as needed). 
 
The following criteria should be considered (as referenced in CCFT Collective Bargaining Agreement Art. 17):   
1) Classroom Performance; 2) Students; 3) Colleagues; 4) Professional Growth and Responsibilities; and  
5) Special Assignments or Reassigned Duties (see reverse for full description). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evaluation Team Chairperson 
 
 
 
Team Member Signature 
 
 
Faculty Member Signature 
 
 
 
Division Chair Signature 
 
Signature by the person being evaluated only acknowledges that she/he has reviewed this document.  It does not mean or imply agreement with its 
contents. 
Recommendation if work is less than satisfactory: 
 
 
 
Review by Vice President of Instruction or Designee 
 
 
 

_______ Division Reevaluation next semester 
_______ Administrative Evaluation 
_______ Non-reemployment (contract faculty) 

 
Written Response Attached 

 
Written Response Attached 

 
Written Response Attached 

__________________________________________________ 
Signature 

Date 

 

 

 

 
Date 

 
Date 

 
Date 

 
Date 

 
      

 
      

 
      

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix L.1 

 

 

 

Academic Employee Final Written Evaluation Criteria 

 
 

The following criteria should be considered (as referenced in CCFT Collective Bargaining Agreement, Article 17): 

 
 

1)  Classroom Performance  The faculty member demonstrates effective performance in classroom teaching or in 
carrying out other primary responsibilities and assignments including:  (a) currency and depth of knowledge of 
teaching field or job duties; (b) proficiency in written and oral English enabling clear, effective communication to 
students, staff and colleagues; (c) use of teaching or job specific methods and materials challenging to the student and 
appropriate to the subject matter, responsive to the needs of students, and consistent with curriculum requirements 
and coordination/sequencing; this is not intended to discourage use within a department of a variety of successful 
pedagogical approaches to learning; (d) careful attention to effective organizational skills in the classroom or work 
site; (e) provision to students of appropriate class materials including a course syllabus with course outlines, course 
objectives, method of assessment, grading criteria and other classroom policies; (f) appropriate measurement of 
student progress; (g) evidence of course objectives being met; and (h) in the case of contract, temporary contract, and 
regular faculty, consistent responsibility in fulfilling official college requirements, including, as a baseline, those 
outside-the-classroom assignments such as attending division and department meetings, participating on search and 
selection committees, participation on evaluation teams, contributing to curriculum development, participating in 
program planning, and participating in college governance as needed. 

 
2)  Students  Faculty member demonstrates:  (a) patience, fairness, and promptness in the evaluation and discussion of 

student work; (b) respect for and responsiveness to needs of a diverse student population and their special 
circumstances where appropriate; (c) maintenance of contractual obligations to hold regular and timely office hours; 
(d) respect for the right of students to voice opinions and concerns; (e) willingness and availability to assist students; 
and (f) respect for students' rights as outlined in the Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook. 

 
3)  Colleagues  Faculty member shall show respect for colleagues and the teaching profession by:   
 

(a) acknowledging and defending the free inquiry of their associates in the exchange of critique and ideas; (b) 
respecting the right of others to express a variety of opinions; (c) acknowledging academic debts (credit works to 
avoid plagiarism); (d) acknowledging achievements and areas in need of improvement; (e) acting in accordance with 
the ethics of the profession and with a sense of personal integrity; and (f) acting in a manner that does not disrupt 
colleagues' performance of duties. 

 
4)  Professional Growth and Responsibilities  Faculty member shall demonstrate continued professional growth by:  

(a) continued participation in self-initiated professional activities such as course work, attendance at workshops, 
seminars, professional meetings, publications, conference presentations, artistic exhibits/performances, classroom 
research, development of new curriculum, and community involvement specific to academic area and other 
appropriate activities; and (b) active participation in collegial governance and campus life including serving on 
committees. 

(b) perform appropriate record keeping, correspondence, coordination and reporting. 

 
5)  Special Assignments or Reassigned Duties  Faculty member shall (a) perform assigned duties; and  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Appendix L.2 

Revision 8/98 

 

Appendix M 

 

Student Evaluation of Instructor 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
5 

5 

 
4 

4 

 
3 

3 

 
2 

2 

 
1 

1 

 
X 

  Date   

  Course  

Doesn’t 
Apply 

Agree- 
Disagree 

logically organized 

Optional 
Comments 
 
 

 
Instructor’s Name   
Please indicate your appraisal of the instructor’s performance in this class by drawing a circle around the 
number that most closely expresses your view.  The purpose of the process is the improvement of your 
instructor’s effectiveness as a teacher.  Your fair and honest opinion is what really counts.  Do not sign your 
name to this sheet. 
 
 
 
 
 
Preparation 
  1.  Course requirements were clearly defined  
 
  (attendance, grading, syllabus, objectives) 
  2.  Class sessions are well prepared and  
 
  3.  Reading materials are appropriate 
 
Attendance/Punctuality 
  4.  Begins on time 
  5.  Uses full class period 
  6.  Has a good attendance record 
 
Instructional Methods 
  7.  Displays enthusiasm for the subject 
  8.  Stimulates student interest 
  9.  Communicates subject matter clearly 
 
 10.  Encourages student participation and  
 
 11.  Demonstrates respect and concern towards  
 
 12.  Uses a variety of teaching techniques 
 13.  Is available for office hours and makes 
 
 
Evaluation (Feedback to Student) 
 14.  Makes students aware of progress in class 
 15.  Returns graded assignments in reasonable 
 
 16.  Assignments are appropriate to course  
 
 17.  Amount of work assigned was appropriate 
 18.  Tests are relevant to course material 
 
 

  provisions for consultation and assistance 

  provides motivation to learn 

time with helpful comments 

X 
 
 
X 
X 
X 
 
 
X 
X 

1 
 
 
1 
1 
1 
 
 
1 
1 

2 
 
 
2 
2 
2 
 
 
2 
2 

3 
 
 
3 
3 
3 
 
 
3 
3 

4 
 
 
4 
4 
4 
 
 
4 
4 

5 
 
 
5 
5 
5 
 
 
5 
5 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

  and effectively 

  objectives 

  students 

 
 
1 

1 

 
 
2 

2 

 
 
3 

3 

 
 
4 

4 

 
 
5 

5 

1 

1 

1 

2 

2 

2 

3 

3 

3 

4 

4 

4 

5 

5 

5 

 
 
X 

1 

1 
1 

X 

X 

X 

X 

X 
X 

2 

2 
2 

3 

3 
3 

4 

4 
4 

5 

5 
5 

X 

X 

1 

1 

2 

2 

3 

3 

4 

4 

5 

5 

 

 

X 

X 

My overall evaluation of this instructor is: 

Excellent     Very Good     Good     Fair     Poor 

 

 

(over) 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
Comments (please use additional sheets if necessary): 
 
  19.  Describe the strengths of the instructor; try to be specific and give examples. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  20.  If the instructor were to teach this course again, what suggestions for improvement would you have? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  21.  How likely would you be to recommend this instructor to others? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  22.  Any additional comments? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Appendix M.2 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Appendix N 

 

 
 

EVALUATION TEAM CLASSROOM OR WORKSITE VISITATION/EVALUATION 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date:    

Instructor Name:  
 
The criteria referenced in CCFT Collective Bargaining Agreement, Article 17, should be considered. 
OBSERVATIONS 
Class/Activity:  
 
Date:    
  1.  How well was the class/activity presentation planned and organized? 
  2.  Were important ideas clearly explained? 
  3.  How would you judge the instructor’s mastery of the material? 
  4.  Do you believe the instructor encouraged relevant student involvement? 
  5.  How would you describe the attitude of students in the class/activity toward the instructor? 
  6.  How effectively does the instructor use visual aids or other materials? 
  7.  If course schedule, outline, and other materials handed out to students were requested from the instructor prior to 

Number of students in attendance:  

Hour:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the visitation, were they relevant to the presentation in the class/activity? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commendations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of Observer/Evaluator:  
 
Date of meeting with evaluatee (within two weeks of classroom visit):  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date:    

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix O 

 

Student Evaluation of Academic Specialist/Counselor 

  reasonable amount of time. 

  for the appointment. 

  appointment time.  

  (check only one) 
 
 

 
 

  within a reasonable amount of time. 

 
  b.  The time allotted was sufficient. 
  c.  Good use was made of the time.  

  Appointment (answer #2abc, skip #3) 
  Drop-in (skip #2, go to #3abc) 

 
  b.  The specialist/counselor was on time 
 
  c.  Effective use was made of the  
 

 
 
 
  1.  I saw the specialist/counselor by 
 
 
 
 
  2.  a.  My appointment was obtained within a  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  3.  a.  I was able to see the specialist/counselor  
 
 
 
 
The specialist/counselor: 
 
  4.  Was prepared with/or had access to materials  
 
 
  5.  Made me feel comfortable in seeking  
 
 
  6.  Seemed to understand my request and  
 
 
  7.  Was able to communicate clearly. 
 
  8.  Seemed genuinely interested in helping me. 
 
  9.  Assisted me where appropriate in making  
 
 
 10.  Made accurate referrals to other sources of  
 
 
 11.  If appropriate, I would utilize this  
 
 
 12.  I would recommend this specialist/counselor  
 
 

  and information appropriate to the service. 

 

information (where appropriate). 

  specialist/counselor again. 

  assistance. 

  responded accordingly. 

  decisions. 

 

to others. 

Strongly 
Agree 
 
 

- 
 

Strongly 
Disagree 
 
 

Doesn’t 
Apply 

 

Optional 
Comments 
 
 

 

 
1 

1 

1 

 
1 

1 
1 
 
 
 
1 

 
1 

 
1 

 
1 
 
1 
 
1 

 
1 

 
1 

 
1 

 

 

 
2 

2 

2 

 
2 

2 
2 
 
 
 
2 

 
2 

 
2 

 
2 
 
2 
 
2 

 
2 

 
2 

 
2 

 

 

 
3 

3 

3 

 
3 

3 
3 
 
 
 
3 

 
3 

 
3 

 
3 
 
3 
 
3 

 
3 

 
3 

 
3 

 

 

 
4 

4 

4 

 
4 

4 
4 
 
 
 
4 

 
4 

 
4 

 
4 
 
4 
 
4 

 
4 

 
4 

 
4 

 

(over) 

 

 
5 

5 

5 

 
5 

5 
5 
 
 
 
5 

 
5 

 
5 

 
5 
 
5 
 
5 

 
5 

 
5 

 
5 

 

 

 
X 

X 

X 

 
X 

X 
X 
 
 
 
X 

 
X 

 
X 

 
X 
 
X 
 
X 

 
X 

 
X 

 
X 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix O.2 

 

 

 
 
  13.  Describe the strengths of the specialist/counselor; try to be specific and give examples. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  14.  Did you have any difficulty with any aspect of this specialist’s/counselor’s service?         Yes        No 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

  If yes, please describe. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  15.  What suggestions for improvement would you make for this specialist/counselor? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  16.  Please make any other comments you feel are appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix P 

GRIEVANCE – LEVEL I 

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

 

 

 

 

                           Home phone:   

             If CCFT is the grievant, list bargaining unit member(s) affected 

 
Grievant’s Name   
 
Address:   
 
Work phone:   
 
Department/Division:   
 
Immediate Supervisor:   
 
Person to whom Level I response should be sent:   
 
Statement of Grievance (include names, dates and places necessary for a complete understanding of grievance): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specific section(s) of the contract which the grievant believes have been violated: 
 
 
 
 
Specific actions which will remedy the grievance: 
 
 
 
 
 
Date when attempt at informal resolution was made to immediate supervisor:   
 
Date of written response from immediate supervisor at informal level:   
(Attach a copy of the informal response) 
 
 
Grievant’s Signature:   
 
Level I Decision: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of immediate supervisor:   

                                                             Date:   

                                                            Date:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

One copy of the grievance must be submitted to the grievant’s immediate supervisor, and one copy to the CCFT.  Grievant keeps the third copy. 

 

 

Appendix Q 

GRIEVANCE – LEVEL II 

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

             If CCFT is the grievant, list bargaining unit member(s) affected 

                           Home phone:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Grievant’s Name   
 
Address:   
 
Work phone:   
 
Department/Division:   
 
Immediate Supervisor:   
 
Person to whom Level II response should be sent:   
£  Copy of Level I Grievance attached 
 
Statement of reasons for appeal: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grievant’s Signature:   
 
Date of scheduled personal conference:   
 
 
Level II Decision: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of Superintendent/President:   

                                                             Date:   

 

                                                            Date:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix S 

 

Application For Alternative Methods of Unit Credit 

 

 

 

 

 

Teaching Field  

  Occupational/Technical Development 

 
 
 
Name 
 
 
1.  Check program for which you are applying: 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Please attach a brief explanation for each of the following categories: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

B.  Goals or objectives including expected outcomes and procedures. 

  Publications, Performances, Exhibits, or Demonstrations 

C.  Your time plan for the program. 

A.  The program for which you are applying and expected number of hours for completion. 

 

 

 

 

  D.  How your program relates to classroom instruction and/or how it will provide unique benefit to 

students, other faculty, or the college. 

B.  Explain the means by which this plan will be evaluated and by whom. 

A.  Explain how you plan to document the outcome for the committee. 

 
3.  Please attach a brief explanation for each of the following categories: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
Approval Signature   
 
 

 
 
Faculty Member 

 
Division Chair 

Date 

Date 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ALTERNATIVE CREDIT 

 
1.  The alternative credit process is intended to provide an opportunity for faculty, contract and 

adjunct, to earn advancement on the salary scale by methods other than attendance at college level 
classes.  It was originally targeted to faculty members in the vocational, arts, and literature areas so 
that they could earn credit for "doing what they do," but other faculty have also found the process 
useful.. See Appendix S of the CCFT contract for precise language regarding the process. 

 
2.  The Sabbatical Leave Review Board reviews applications for alternative credit and approves those 

that shall be eligible to earn credit.  Credit may be earned only for MAJOR activities and 
accomplishments above and beyond the normal duties expected of a faculty member. 

future in order to qualify. 

 
5.  You may earn no more than nine units per pay column by this method (i.e. the other six needed for 
advancement must still be earned via coursework).  One unit of salary advancement is awarded for 
every 48 hours of activity on an approved project. 

 
6.  Copies of the negotiated agreement and the application form are available in the CCFT contract. 
 
7.  Please contact your DC or a member of the SLRB for further information. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Examples of projects which have been approved in recent years: 

Performance (dance, theater, music) 
Completion of a MSS of a novel/book 
Preparation of an article for publication in a professional journal of good repute 
On-site experience in a vocational field (e.g. dental hygiene) related to but not included in 
teaching responsibilities 
Production of a textbook 
Consulting in private industry (related to teaching assignment) 

Lecture to Rotary or similar (part of job) 
Service in professional organization (part of job) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  To apply, you must submit a completed application form, signed by your DC, to the Vice 

Examples of projects not approved: 
 
 
  Conference attendance (part of job) 
 
 

Travel study (available through college courses) 
Preparation of course syllabi (part of job) 

President, Instruction.  Deadlines are usually in early September and early February and are 
announced in the Open Channel for three weeks before the deadline. Application forms are 
available as Appendix S of the CCFT contract and may also be found in a box in the Staff Lounge 
in the weeks prior to application deadlines. 

 
4.  Credit cannot be given for activities already completed.  The project must be in process or in the 

 

 

Appendix T 

 

Professional Development/Sabbatical Leave Agreement 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-(“Faculty Member - Department”) 

 
 
PARTIES 
The parties to this Agreement are the Cabrillo Community College District (“District”) and    
 
 
 
PURPOSE 
The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the terms under which faculty members participate in the 
District’s Sabbatical Leave Program pursuant to Article 9 of The Agreement Between Cabrillo 
Community College District and the Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers (“CC & CCFT”). 
 
 
TERMS 
1. 

It is understood that the obligations set forth in this Agreement are in lieu of the bond that is 
otherwise required by Education Code Section 87770.  The Governing Board must approve this 
leave agreement and waive the requirement of the faculty member to furnish a bond. 

 

 

2.  The faculty member’s District-approved sabbatical project proposal is attached hereto and 

incorporated herein by reference. 

 

3.  An abstract of the faculty member’s District-approved sabbatical project proposal is attached 

hereto and incorporated herein by reference.  The abstract contains the following information:  
objective, activities, benefit to the District, and outcomes to be submitted to SLRB with the report. 

 

4.  Article 9, sections 9.1 through and including 9.4, is attached hereto and incorporated herein by 

reference. 

 

5.  Prior to commencement of the sabbatical leave, the Vice-President, Instruction may require the 

faculty member to submit evidence of a physical examination from a licensed medical practitioner 
indicating that the faculty member is capable of fulfilling the activities set forth in this agreement. 

 
 
The parties certify that they have read this agreement and all attachments, fully understanding their 
terms including possible penalties for noncompliance, and agree to them voluntarily. 
 
 
Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 
By:   
 
Faculty Member 
 
By:   

Date:  

Date:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix U 

 

Cabrillo College Faculty Service Areas 

Accounting 
Banking and Finance 
Computer Science 
Computer Technology 
Computer Technology 
Computer Technology 
Computer Technology 
Business 
Business Office Skills and Technology (BOST) 
Real Estate 

FACULTY SERVICE AREA 

Horticulture 
Biological Science 
Chemistry 
Construction Energy Management 
Dental Hygiene 
Medical Assisting 
Nursing 
Radiologic Technology 

 
 
DISCIPLINE 
 
BIOLOGY, ENVIRONMENT, CHEMISTRY, AND HEALTH OCCUPATIONS 
Horticulture 
Biological Science 
Chemistry 
Construction Management 
Dental Hygiene 
Medical Assisting 
Nursing 
Radiologic Technology 
 
BUSINESS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE 
Accounting 
Banking and Finance 
Computer Science 
Computer Applications 
Computer Information Systems 
Computer Service Technology 
Digital Media 
Business 
Business Office Skills and Technology 
Real Estate 
 
COUNSELING 
Counseling 
Counseling 
Counseling 
Disabled Students 
Health Services 
Health Services Nursing 
 
ENGLISH 
English 
 
English as Second Language 
Reading 
Journalism 
 
FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND COMMUNICATION 
Administration of Justice 
Bilingual Bicultural Studies 
Chinese 

Counseling and Guidance 
Career Counseling 
Reentry Counseling 
Disabled Students 280A-Z, 283 
Health Services 
Health Services 

Administration of Justice 
Interdisciplinary Studies 
Chinese 

 

 

 

 

 

English Composition and Literature and  
Creative Writing 
English as Second Language 
Reading 
Journalism 

 

 

French 
German 
Italian 
Japanese 
Russian 
Spanish 
Learning Disabilities: DS 284 or DS 285 or 
DS 284L or DS 282L or LS 254 or LS 255 or  
LS 264 or LS 265 or LS 281 
Speech Improvement:  SP 253 or SP 259A-T  
or SP 259L or DS 284 or DS 285 or 
DS 284L or DS 282L 
American Sign Language 

Adaptive Physical Education:  PE 11 or PE11L 
Athletics 
Dance or PE55 
Health Science 
Physical Education or Rec 

 

 

French 
German 
Italian 
Japanese 
Russian 
Spanish 
Disabled Student Services 
 
 
Disabled Student Services 
 
 
Sign Language 
 
HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, RECREATION AND DANCE 
Adaptive Physical Education 
Coaching 
Dance 
Health 
Physical Education 
 
HUMAN ARTS AND SOCIAL SCIENCES 
Applied Living Arts 
Culinary Arts & Hospitality Management 
Early Childhood Education 
Gerontology 
Speech 
Stroke Center (Disabled Students) 
Women's Studies 
Anthropology 
Economics 
Fire Technology 
Geography 
Hazardous Material Abatement 
History 
Meteorology 
Philosophy 
Political Science 
Psychology 
Psychology 
Psychology 
Sociology 
 
LIBRARY 
Library Science 
Instructional Design/Technology 
 
 
MATH, SCIENCE, AND ENGINEERING 

 

 

Applied Living Arts 
Food Service Technology 
Early Childhood Education 
Gerontology 
Speech Communication 
Stroke Center 
Women's Studies 
Anthropology 
Economics 
Fire Protection Technology 
Geography 
Hazardous Materials 
History 
Meteorology 
Philosophy 
Political Science 
Psychology (except Psych 1B, 6) 
Physiological Psychology (Psych 1B) 
Social Psychology (Psych 6, Soc 6) 
Sociology 

Library Science 
Instructional Design and Technology 

 

Aeronautics 
Astronomy/Physics 
Astronomy/Physics 
Engineering Technology 
Engineering 
Geology and Earth Science 
Industrial Technology 
Mathematics 
 
VISUAL AND PERFORMING ARTS (VAPA) 
Art 
Art 
Art 
Art 
Music 
Music 
Music 
Music 
 
 
Theater Arts 
Theater Arts 
 
 

Aeronautics 
Astronomy 
Physics 
Engineering Technology 
Engineering 
Geology, Oceanography & Environmental Science 
Welding 
Mathematics 

Art Appreciation 
Studio Art (includes FSA Art Appreciation) 
Art History (includes FSA Art Appreciation) 
Photography 
Classical 
Jazz (includes FSA Classical) 
Popular 
Computer-controlled music or synthesis or  
electronic music or musical recording   
(includes FSA Classical) 
Acting and Performance and Appreciation 
Technical Theater (includes FSA Acting and  
Performance and Appreciation) TA 27-28 or  
30-31 or 33-35 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date:   
 
MEMO TO:   
 
FROM: Personnel Services 
 
SUBJECT: 
 
The Personnel Department is currently updating individual faculty service areas (FSAs) for contract 
academic staff.  Please complete and return this form by  
and current. 
 
1.  In consideration of minimum qualifications and district competency standards, your district 

Faculty Service Areas 

 

employment records currently list the following Faculty Service Area(s):   

 to ensure that your file is accurate 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Faculty Service Area(s) 

 
 
 
2.  If you feel you are qualified in an additional FSA(s), please list below: 
 
  
 
 
2a. List or attach documentation to enable verification of minimum qualifications or credential (see back). 
 
 
2b. List or attach documentation to enable verification of competency (see back). 
 
 
I certify that the foregoing information and attachments (if any) are true and correct. 
 
 
  
 
Signature 
 
 
  
Date 
 
 
RETURN BY   
PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT 
 
 
If you have any questions, contact the Academic Personnel Technician at ext. 6240. 
 

  TO ACADEMIC TECHNICIAN DESK, 

 
 
Division 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Appendix V 

FSA Update Form 

 

 

Appendix V.1 

 

 

FACULTY SERVICE AREAS (FSAs) 

 
 
 
AB 1725 requires local districts to define, through the collective bargaining process where applicable, 
faculty service areas (FSAs) for their local colleges.  At the January 7,1991 Governing Board meeting, 
Cabrillo's FSAs were submitted and approved.  AB 1725 requires the college to establish and update 
individual faculty service areas annually for contract academic staff. 
 
In order to qualify in any FSA, a faculty member must meet both minimum qualifications and competency 
standards.  To be considered "competent" in a service area, on must meet minimum qualifications in the 
discipline and FSA, and meet district criteria for competency in the FSA. 
 
In accordance with board policy 5107, Cabrillo College competency criteria are: 
 
1.  Two semesters of satisfactory district employment in the service area. 
 
2.  In service areas demonstrating technological development that has produced significant change in the 

last 5 years, satisfactory district employment in the service area in the last 5 years OR 12 semester units 
of upper division or graduate level course work in the service area in the last 5 years OR equivalent 
employment in the service areas during the last 5 years.  The equivalency of work experience will be 
determined by a committee composed of 2 administrators, one division chair--selected by the 
superintendent/president and 2 tenured faculty members selected by CCFT. 

Engineering Technology 
Technical Theater 
Technical Production 

 
The FSAs requiring recency are: 
 
  Business Office Skills and Technology (BOST) 
  Computer Science 
  Computer Technology 
  Computer controlled music synthesis, electronic music, recording techniques 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions, please consult with your division chair.  A list of FSAs and minimum 
qualifications are available in your division office. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Appendix V.2 

 

 

Appendix W 

 

Board Policy 5107 - Competency Policy 

 
 
Minimum qualifications and competency within a faculty service area (FSA) provide the basis to determine 
reassignment rights of more senior employees to be retained in areas in which they might not be employed 
at the time of layoff.  A faculty member may qualify in any FSA in which he/she has met both minimum 
qualifications and district competency standards. 
 
To be considered "competent" in a service area, one must meet minimum qualifications in the discipline 
and FSA and meet district criteria for competency in the FSA. 
 
Cabrillo College competency criteria are: 
 
1.  Two semesters of satisfactory district employment in the service area, AND 
 
2.  In service areas demonstrating technological development that has produced significant change in the 

last 5 years, satisfactory district employment in the service area in the last 5 years OR 12 semester units 
of upper division or graduate level course work in the service area in the last 5 years OR equivalent 
work experience in the service area during the last 5 years.  The equivalency of work experience will 
be determined by a committee composed of 2 administrators, one division chair -- selected by the 
superintendent/president and two tenured faculty members selected by CCFT. 

 
The FSAs requiring recency are: 
 
  Business Office Skills and Technology (BOST) 
  Computer Science 
  Computer Technology 
  Computer controlled music synthesis, electronic music, recording techniques 
 
 
 
 
Subsequent requests for changes to the above list will be made through the collective bargaining process. 

Engineering Technology 
Technical Theater 
Technical Production 

 

 

 

 

Appendix X 

 

Family and Medical Leave Policy 

 

 
AR #5050 
An employee should contact his/her supervisor or the Human Resources office as soon as he/she becomes 
aware of the need for a family and medical leave.  Supervisors should gather sufficient information to 
enable him/her to ascertain whether an employee may be entitled to family and medical leave, even if the 
employee does not specifically request such leave.  Supervisors must refer all employees requesting or 
potentially entitled to a family and medical leave to the Human Resources office. 
 
Definitions 
(1)  Child:  A biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a legal ward, or a child of a person standing 

 

in loco parentis who is either under 18 or an adult dependent child. 

 

(2)  Parent:  A biological, foster, or adoptive parent, a stepparent, a legal guardian, or other person who 

stood in loco parentis to the employee when the employee was a child. 

 

(3)  Spouse:  A husband or wife as defined under California law.  (Note:  "common law marriage" is not 

recognized under California law.) 

 

(4)  Serious Health Condition:  An illness, injury, or impairment, or physical or mental condition that 

involves either (a) inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, or residential health care facility or (b) 
continuing treatment or continuing supervision by a health care provider. 

 

 
Employee Eligibility 
To be eligible for family and medical leave benefits, an employee must: 
(1)  have worked for the District for a total of at least 12 months (need not be consecutive), and 
(2)  have worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12 calendar months immediately preceding the date of the 

 

 

leave, except overtime exempt employees and full-time educators who are deemed to meet the 1250 
hour requirement if they meet the 12 month requirement stated in (1) above, and 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3)  work at a location where at least 50 employees are employed by the District within 75 miles. 
 
Allowable Reasons for Family and Medical Leave 
Eligible employees may be granted family and medical leave for one or more of the following reasons: 
(1)  for the birth of a child or placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care; or 
(2)  to care for an immediate family member (spouse, child or parent) with a serious health condition; or 
(3)  when the employee is unable to work because of his/her own serious health condition. 
 
Leave Available 
Eligible full-time employees may receive up to a total of 12 work weeks (60 work days) of unpaid leave 
during a rolling 12-month period.  The maximum family and medical leave for an eligible part-time 
employee is prorated based on the percentage of full-time he/she works.   
 
 

 

The rolling 12-month period will be counted backward from the date an employee uses any family and 

Appendix X.1 

 

 

 

 

 

medical leave. The amount of family and medical leave available to an eligible employee will be 12 work 
weeks less any family and medical leave used during the rolling 12-month period. 
If both spouses are employed by the District, the maximum family and medical leave available for the birth 
or placement of a child will be an aggregate of 12 work weeks for both spouses. 
Under some circumstances, employees may take family and medical leave intermittently, which means 
taking leave in blocks of time, or by reducing their normal weekly or daily work schedule.  Employees 
should contact the Human Resources department regarding their individual situation. 
Pregnant employees may have the right to take a pregnancy disability leave in addition to a family and 
medical leave; such employees should contact the Human Resources department regarding their individual 
situation. 
 
Notice and Certification 
Employees seeking to use family and medical leave may be required to provide: 
(1)  30-day advance notice when the need for the leave is foreseeable; 
(2)  when the need for family and medical leave is unforeseeable, normally five working days notice, and 

 

 

 

not less than one day's notice, unless the employee is able to demonstrate extraordinary circumstances, 
in which case no advance notice shall be required; 

 

(3)  medical certification (prior to leave) of need for leave requested for reasons of "serious health 

condition" of self or immediate family member, and recertification if additional leave is required;  

 

(4)  medical certification (prior to reinstatement) of fitness-for-duty of employee returning from leave that 

was for employee's own serious health condition.  The employee must be notified when leave is 
requested that a fitness-for-duty certification may be required prior to reinstatement. 

 

 

 

(5)  periodic recertification; and 
(6)  periodic reports during the leave. 
 
When leave is needed to care for an immediate family member or the employee's own serious health 
condition, and is for planned medical treatment, the employee must try to schedule treatment so as not to 
unduly disrupt the District's operation. 
When leave is requested for the birth or placement of a child, the leave must be initiated within one year of 
the birth or placement. 
 
Compensation During Leave and Concurrent Use of Accrued Paid Leave 
Family and medical leave is unpaid leave.   
The District will require an employee to use accrued paid leave concurrently with the family and medical 
leave, as follows: 
(1)  Employee will be required to use all accrued vacation leave, comp time, "Critical Illness of a Family 

 

 

 

Member" leave, and differential pay leave during the period of family and medical leave; 

 

(2)  When family and medical leave is requested for an employee's own serious health condition, 

employee will be required to use all accrued sick leave and/or personal injury and illness leave during 
the period of family and medical leave; 

 
 

(3)  When family and medical leave is requested to care for the serious health condition of an immediate 

Appendix X.2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

family member or for birth or placement of a child, the employee may request to use his/her balance 
of accrued Personal Necessity Leave during the period of family and medical leave.  The employee 
will not be allowed to use accrued sick leave and/or personal injury and illness leave (other than 
Personal Necessity Leave) for family and medical leave requested to care for the serious health 
condition of an immediate family member or for birth or placement of a child. 

 

(4)  When an employee's industrial illness or injury meets the definition of a "serious health condition" in 

family and medical leave law, then an eligible employee must use paid disability leave under 
industrial accident and illness laws and regulations during the period of the family and medical leave. 

 

 

 
The District will designate an employee's leave, paid or unpaid, as family or medical leave under the 
federal or state law, based on the information provided by the employee when leave is requested.  If the 
District designates paid leave as family or medical leave, it must make this designation before the leave 
starts, or before an extension of leave is granted, and must immediately notify the employee of the 
designation.  
The District will keep records on employee family and medical leaves that will enable verification of the 
leave taken, leave remaining, and other provisions of this policy. 
 
Benefits During Leave 
(1)  Group Health Benefits: 
 

The District will maintain group health insurance coverage for an employee on family and medical 
leave for up to a maximum of 12 work weeks if such insurance was provided before the leave was 
taken and on the same terms as if the employee had continued to work.   
In some instances, the District may recover premiums it paid to maintain health coverage for an 
employee who fails to return to work following family or medical leave. 
Employees are entitled to new health plans or benefits, or changes, which occur during their leave, 
and the District will give notice of such changes.  If premiums are raised or lowered, an employee on 
family and medical leave must pay new rates if paying a portion of premiums. 

(2)  Other Benefits Requiring Premium Payments: 
 

For benefits other than group health benefits, an employee may elect to continue them during a family 
and medical leave by self-paying premiums. 

 

(3)  Retirement Plans: 
  With respect to retirement plans, the period of family and medical care leave is treated as continued 

service for purposes of vesting and eligibility to participate. 

 

(4)  Longevity: 
 

For purposes of determining longevity, a family and medical care leave shall not constitute a break in 
service. 

 

(5)  Accrual of Benefits: 
 

An employee on family and medical leave will continue to accrue benefits only during leave which is 
concurrently taken as accrued paid leave (vacation leave, comp time, Critical Illness of a Family 
Member leave, differential pay leave, sick leave).  During leave without pay, no benefits will accrue. 

Benefit Reinstatement 

Appendix X.3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Employee benefits will be resumed following a family and medical leave in the same manner and at the 
same level as were provided by the District when the leave began, other than benefit changes which 
affected the entire work force. 
If an employee chooses not to retain group health coverage or other employer-offered insurance policies 
during a family and medical leave, he/she is entitled to reinstatement with the same terms upon return, with 
no qualifying period, exams or exclusions.  
An employee returns from a family and medical leave with no less seniority than when the leave 
commenced. 
 
Job Reinstatement 
Except for defined "key employees," an employee, upon return from family and medical leave, will be 
reinstated to his/her original job, or to an equivalent job with equivalent pay, benefits and other 
employment terms and conditions.  However, an employee is not entitled to any position other than that 
which he/she would have had if he/she had not taken leave.  The District is allowed to deny return to work 
in a position which ceased to exist during the leave for legitimate business reasons.   
"Key employees" are defined as salaried employees who are among the highest paid 10% of the employees 
of the District employed within 75 miles of the facility at which the employee works.  Under certain 
conditions, the employer may refuse to reinstate key employees upon return from a family and medical 
leave. 
 
Notice to Employees 
The District will post a notice of family and medical leave provisions in areas accessible to employees.  In 
addition, the District will provide detailed notice of specific expectations, obligations, and consequences of 
failure, to the employee when a family and medical leave is requested. 
 
Unlawful Acts 
It is unlawful for the District to interfere with, restrain, or deny the exercise of any right provided by state 
or federal law.  It is also unlawful for the District to refuse to hire or to discharge or discriminate against 
any individual for opposing any practice, or because of involvement in any proceedings related to family 
and medical leave. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Appendix X.4 

 

 

 

Side Letter 2001-02.6
Attachment A

Cabrillo College

Adjunct Faculty Salary Schedule

2001 - 2002

(Rate Per Unit)

Effective August 27, 2001

Salary Schedule increased by 8% plus $552K applied to cap
This schedule based on availability of State Funds for part-time faculty compensation.
This schedule will not be used as the basis for contract period 2002/2003 if State funds for part-time faculty compensation 
are not available for that year.

Class >

1

BA or Specific

Minimum

2

MA/MS

Step

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

Requirements
                  
856
883
888
                  
916
                  
929
957
                  
970
998
1,011
               
1,039
               
1,052
1,080
               
1,094
1,121
1,135
               
1,162
               
1,176
1,203
               
1,217
1,244
               
1,217
1,244
1,217
               
1,244
Doctorate Stipend: $57 per unit

                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               

3

MA/MS

+ 15 Units

(BA + 45 Units)
                  
911
943
                  
                  
984
               
1,025
1,066
               
               
1,107
               
1,148
1,189
               
               
1,230
               
1,271
               
1,271
1,271
               

4

MA/MS

+ 30 Units

(BA + 60 Units)
                  
938
970
                  
               
1,011
               
1,052
1,093
               
               
1,135
               
1,176
1,217
               
               
1,258
               
1,280
               
1,280
1,280
               

5

MA/MS

+ 45 Units

(BA + 75 Units)
                  
966
998
                  
               
1,039
               
1,080
1,121
               
               
1,162
               
1,203
1,244
               
               
1,280
               
1,280
               
1,280
1,280
               

6

MA/MS

+ 60 Units

(BA + 90 Units)
                  
994
1,025
               
               
1,066
               
1,107
1,148
               
               
1,189
               
1,230
1,271
               
               
1,280
               
1,280
               
1,280
1,280
               

Note: Step 9 is the maximum initial salary placement per CCFT contract, article 13.2.3.

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

SIDE LETTERS 

 

Updated 8/01 

ATTACHMENT I 

AGREEMENT BETWEEN 

CABRILLO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT 

AND THE 

CABRILLO COLLEGE FEDERATION OF TEACHERS 

 
The purpose of this Agreement is to define the rights of Division Chairs to take sabbatical leaves 
and how such rights are affected when Division Chairs return to the bargaining unit in a faculty 
position.    CCFT  acknowledges  that  nothing  herein  should  or  may  be  construed  to  mean  that 
CCFT has any representational rights, obligations or duties regarding Division Chairs, since such 
positions are not in the bargaining unit. 
 
The parties agree that Article 9.1 through 9.16 of the CCFT-District agreement effective July 1, 
1988  through  June  30,  1991  shall  be  amended  to  include  Division  Chairs  in  the  sabbatical 
program under the following conditions: 
 
1. 

Division Chairs (DCs) shall have the right to take sabbaticals for the purposes which are 
specified in Section 9.1 of the contract.  The interpretation of this section shall be left to 
the Sabbatical Leave Review Board. 

An ex-DC who has returned to faculty status may apply for a sabbatical under the existing 
policy,  with  years  of  DC  service  counting  equally  with  teaching  years  in  eligibility 
calculations.  (This is our present policy.  It would require the DC to spend at least one 
year, the year during which s/he could apply for the leave, as a regular faculty member.) 

A DC who has not yet returned to faculty status may apply for a sabbatical by submitting 
a written plan (Section 9.10.1.1) which also includes a letter stating his or her intent to go 
on leave as a regular faculty member and to return to regular faculty status after the leave 
for at least as long as the period of required service (one or two years, Section 9.8).  The 
replacement  costs  and  contributions  associated  with  that  sabbatical  shall  be  included  in 
the funding calculations (Section 9.6). 

DC's  sabbatical  compensation  shall  be  calculated  by  placing  that  person  on  the  current 
faculty  salary  schedule  at  the  position  that  s/he  would  have  attained  had  s/he  served 
continuously as a regular faculty member rather than as a DC. 

 
 

 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 

 
All other provisions of Article 9 stand as negotiated. 
 
Date:   
 
For the Cabrillo Community  
College District 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SL-1 

Date:   

 

 

For the Cabrillo College 
Federation of Teachers 

By: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ATTACHMENT II 

AGREEMENT BETWEEN 

CABRILLO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT (CCCD) 

AND THE 

 

 

CABRILLO COLLEGE FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (CCFT) 

 
The  parties  agree  to  the  following  regarding  directors,  instructional  support  faculty,  and  the 
conversion of teaching units to hours. 
 
 

Table I, Director's Compensation, represents the full amount of compensation for 
directors and the criteria used as guidelines in determining any additions, deletions, 
or changes in the number of teaching units or hours of compensation for Directors. 

1) 

 
 

2) 

Table  II,  Instructional  Support  Faculty  (ISF)  Compensation,  Article  11.6.3.2.2, 
represents  the  full  amount  of  compensation  for  faculty  assigned  as  specified  in 
Article 11.6. 

 

 

 

4) 

3) 

Table III, Conversion of Teaching Units to Hours. 

Generic job description for Academic Program Director 

 
 
 
 
 
The  parties  have  agreed  to  the  following  "grandparenting"  provision:    Directors  and  ISFs  with 
less compensation as specified in Table I and Table II than received in 1994-95 will receive the 
higher compensation beginning January, 1996 and through 1996-97 only.  Any resignation of a 
unit member in a director or ISF position covered by the grandparenting provision will terminate 
the higher compensation for 1995-96 and 1996-97. 
 
 
 
Date:   
 
For the Cabrillo Community  
College District 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
(This  side  letter  will  become  valid  upon  ratification  of  this  contract  and  the  appropriate 
signatures). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

For the Cabrillo College 
Federation of Teachers 

Date:   

 

 
 

 

By: 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SL-2a 

Academic Program Directors’ Compensation – Academic Year 2001-02 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE I 
Revised 8/23/01 

DIRECTOR 

ASSIGNED TO DIRECT 
  Accounting 
  Adaptive PE 
  Archeology Tech 
  Bio/Chem 
  Computer & Info Systems 
      Digital Media 
      Bus Ofc Skills&Tech 
  Construction&EnergyMng 
  Dance 
  Engineering Tech/Weld 
  ECE 
  Engineering 
  English 
  ESL 
  Foreign Language 
  Fire Technology 
  General Business 
  Horticulture 
  Journalism 
  Learning Community 
  Learning Skills 
  Math 
  Medical Asst 
  Math Science&Engineering 
  Nursing Assistant 
  Performing Arts 
  Photo 
  Physical Education 
  Public Safety 
  Reading 
  Small Bus/RE 
  Studio & Art History 
  Theater Arts 
  Women Studies 
HIRED TO DIRECT 
  Culinary Arts 
  Criminal Justice 
  Dental Hygiene 
  Rad Tech 

ANNUAL 
UNITS 

ANNUAL 
HOURS/ 

WK 

SUMMER 

UNITS 

STIPEND 

EXTRA 

CONTRACT 

DAYS 

 
6 
8 
6 
5 
13 
6 
6 
3 
6 
12 
15 
4 
12 
8 
7 
6 
2 
8 
5 
6 
3 
12 
12 
2 
16 
10 
6 
5 
8 
3 
5 
5 
6 
5 
 

16 
4 
13 
12 

 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2.5 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SL-2b 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

4686 

 

4686 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

185 

 

 

 

 
Page 2, Table I 
 

DIRECTOR 

HIRED/HOURS 

  DSP&S 
  Athletics 
  Transfer 
  Stroke Center 
  TchgLrngCtr/StfDev 
  EOPS 

 

 

ANNUAL 

HOURS/ 

WK 

 

36 
36 
36 
36 
36 
36 

ANNUAL 

UNITS 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

SUMMER 

UNITS 

 

 
 
 

3.75 

 
 

EXTRA 

STIPEND 

CONTRACT 

 

4686 
4686 
4686 

 
 
 

DAYS 

 

195 
185 

 
 

195 
195 

 

In determining compensation, the following criteria will be applied as guidelines: 
1) 

 
 

  500 - 1000  
= 0.5 unit per semester 
1001 and above   = 1.0 unit per semester 

Facility -- up to 3 units each semester depending upon size, complexity, and assistance from 
classified or other academic staff. 
Accreditation -- up to 3 units per semester pursuant to BP 3030. 
Coordination including: 
a)  number of students in classes at census: 
 
 
b)  number of sections scheduled per semester: 
 
 
 
c)  ratio of adjunct faculty to full-time faculty: 
 
d)  budget: 
 

  0 through   9   = 0 units per semester 
= 0.5 unit per semester 
10 through 25 
26 and above  
= 1.0 unit per semester 

greater than or equal to three = 0.5 unit per semester 

over $40,000 general fund excluding the 1000, 2100 and 2200 accounts = 0.5 
unit per semester 
over $150,000 with no contract clerical assistance 

 
 
e)  coordinating with community, state and federal agencies, college programs, and/or other 

 
  = 1 unit per semester 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

2) 
3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
4) 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

up to 1 unit per semester 
(Nursing will receive an addition 2 teaching units per semester in this area) 

educational institutions, work with program pre-requisite screening, student advising: 
 
 

 
 
f)  writing grants or participation in special projects: 
 
All Academic Program Directors will receive a minimum of 1 unit per semester of reassigned 
time. 

up to 1 unit per semester 

 

SL-2c 

 

 
 

TABLE II 

INSTRUCTIONAL/STUDENT SERVICES  
SUPPORT FACULTY COMPENSATION 

ARTICLE 11.6.3.2.2 

 
 
All other faculty reassigned to support students, faculty, and/or maintain facilities or to provide 
support for a special project, whether funded by the college or categorically funded, shall be 
compensated at a rate to be negotiated as specified in Article 11.6.3.2.2.  Those positions that 
are presently reassigned are as follows: 
 

Cooperative Work Experience  
(summer assignment depends upon number of students) 
 
Puente Project 
 
RT Clinic   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 units per year 

8 units per year 

16 units per year 

10 units per year, 3 units summer 

12 units per year 

6 units per year 

3 units per semester 

1 unit per semester 

1 unit per semester 

SL-2d 

Revised 10/12/01 
 
 

 

Gallery 

 

 

Cabrillo Stage 

 

Theater Arts 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Distance Education Coordination 

 

Nursing LVN Coordination 

 

Dental Lab Coordination 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

16 WEEKS – UNITS TO HOURS PER WEEK 

 

UNITS 

HOURS PER 

WEEK 

 

TABLE III 

.5 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

1.20 

2.40 

4.80 

7.20 

9.60 

12.00 

14.40 

16.79 

19.19 

21.59 

23.99 

26.39 

28.79 

31.19 

33.58 

35.98 

 
 
 
 
 
2.33 x units = total x 17.5 = total / 17 = chart 
 
16 weeks plus FLEX = 17 weeks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

SL-2e 

ACADEMIC PROGRAM DIRECTOR 

(2) 

 
JOB DESCRIPTION 
 
The Academic Program Director is an academic employee of the District assigned responsibility for 
one or more of the following: 
 
(1) 

directing the operation of a District instructional facility (on or off campus) which, in 
addition to serving as a classroom, either (a) provides services to students and/or 
community members, or (b) is maintained by program staff without assistance from the 
district Maintenance and Operations Department; 
planning, developing, coordinating and implementing a college program which may only be 
offered under the auspices of an outside program accrediting or regulatory agency, in 
accordance with the requirements of the outside agency and with Board Policy and 
Administrative Regulation 3030; 
directing and coordinating an academic or occupational program for the district. 

(3) 
 
SCOPE 
 
Under the general direction of the division chair or administrator responsible for the instructional 
facility or academic/occupational program, the Academic Program Director performs and is 
accountable for the direction, supervision and coordination of the facility and/or program assigned. 
 
TYPICAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
1. 

Assists responsible administrator with supervision, recruitment and/or evaluation of faculty 
and classified employees for the assigned program and/or facility pursuant to CCFT and 
SEIU contracts; 

Plan, develop, implement and monitor the assigned program and/or facility budget; 

 
2. 
 
3.  May participate in grant writing and/or implementation and other revenue generating 

services related to the assigned program and/or facility; 

Directs the operation, purchasing and maintenance needs of the assigned program and/or 
facility; 

Plan, develop, articulate, implement and revise a program curriculum, with input from 
appropriate colleagues; 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
9. 

 
 
 
 

 
 

Develop and coordinate the instructional schedules, services, staffing and planning for the 
assigned program or facility; 

In conjunction with the counseling division, perform program and career advising; 

 
7. 
 
8.  Work with the local community, educational institutions, employers and advisory 

committees on matters related to the assigned program or facility; 

Coordinate and assist with the recruitment, retention and tracking of students within the 
assigned program, and with determination of program prerequisite criteria and procedures; 

 
10.  Hires, schedules and supervises temporary and student employees for the assigned program 

and/or facility. 

SL-2f 

ABILITIES 
 
Ability to provide effective direction of an assigned program or facility.  Ability to develop and 
manage a program or facility budget.  Ability to work cooperatively with others.  Ability to 
communicate effectively, both orally and in writing.  Ability to train, schedule, supervise and 
evaluate staff.  Ability to set up and maintain effective recordkeeping systems.  Ability to work 
effectively under deadlines and multiple demands.  Ability to understand, interpret and apply 
pertinent laws, rules and regulations. 
 
QUALIFICATIONS 
 
Possession of appropriate community college credential or meet the state minimum qualifications 
or equivalency applicable to faculty assignment, AND any additional education, experience or 
credential/license requirements specified for directors of the assigned program area. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
 
The Academic Program Director performs assigned duties under the general direction of the 
division chair or administrator responsible for the instructional facility or academic/occupational 
program. 
 
AUTHORITY/RESPONSIBILITY 
 
The Academic Program Director directs and coordinates the operation of the assigned facility 
and/or program, assists in hiring, supervising and evaluating program and/or facility staff, and 
schedules staff. 
 
(This side letter will become valid upon ratification of this contract and the appropriate signatures). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SL-2g 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

AND THE 

BETWEEN 

CABRILLO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT 

CABRILLO COLLEGE FEDERATION OF TEACHERS 

LETTER OF AGREEMENT REGARDING SECTION 14.3.1 

Jensen, Charlotte 
Kelly, Carole 
Martinez, Dan 
Neher, Andrew 
Phelps, Peter S. 
Pfotenhauer, Rock 
Robles, Felix 

 
Acosta, Eva   
 
Broadston, Sue 
 
Coe, Virginia  
 
Cox, Steve 
 
 
Davis, Diane  
Deitch, Elaine 
 
Goldbeck, Jennifer   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not withstanding the provisions of Article 14.3.1, which mandates medical coverage for unit 
members, the following individuals shall not be required to take such coverage: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the future, if any of the above individuals desire enrollment in a District's medical plan, 
enrollment shall be subject to evidence of insurability and, the provisions of Article 14.3.1 
mandated employee medical coverage. 
 
 
Date:   
 
For the Cabrillo Community  
College District 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

For the Cabrillo College 
Federation of Teachers 

Date:   

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By: 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ATTACHMENT III 

 

SL-3 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.1 

 
 

 
 

Cabrillo Community College District  

and the 

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

Article 13, Salary 

Academic Program Directors 

Social Science and HAS Pilot Program 

 
 
 
The parties agree to the following contract revisions through June 30, 2002 regarding compensation for 
Academic Program Directors in the Social Science and HAS Pilot Program: 
 
For 2001-02 only, current Academic Program Directors in the Social Science and HAS Pilot Program will 
continue to be compensated and to operate their programs as per past practice.  For departments without 
an APD in the past, two new Department Chair positions will be created for 2001-02, each compensated 
with one class of reassigned time or three units of overload for each semester.  An additional unit of 
reassigned time per semester will be allocated to the Department Chair of the cluster that includes the 
Speech Communication Department.  Any changes in APD compensation and/or workload must be 
mutually agreed upon by the unit member and the appropriate administrator. 
 
Duties of the APDs and new Department Chairs include: 
(cid:159)  Scheduling, working with support staff and the Dean 
(cid:159)  Evaluation, working with Dean 
(cid:159)  Coordination of department staffing, purchases and budgeting, working with financial officer and 

 

 

 

Dean 

 

(cid:159)  Serving as the first level of communication in responding to student complaints within the 

departments represented 

 

(cid:159)  Coordinating with VP, Instruction during the 2001-02 year and making recommendation to improve 

the Division’s structure as part of the pilot program 

 

 

 

 

(cid:159)  Coordinating communication, planning, and other duties related to that cluster 
 
 
 
 
Date:   
For Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 
By:   
 
 
 
 

By:   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SL-2001-02.1 

Date:    
For Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.2 

Cabrillo Community College District  

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

and the 

 

 

Article 9, Professional Growth and Development 

Intellectual Property Rights 

 
 
Cabrillo Community College District recognizes the need to adopt and maintain an Intellectual Property 
Rights policy that encourages faculty and staff to engage in the production of scholarly works, creative 
publications, and technology-based materials.  Inherent in these policies are the following general 
assumptions: 
 

(cid:160)  That the rights of faculty, staff, and the District need to be fairly balanced through mutual 

 

agreement. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(cid:160)  That the following definitions regarding copyright, royalties, and utilization of all materials will be 

consistent with the promotion of academic freedom and “fair use” guidelines. 

(cid:160)  The District is not interested in entering into agreements for the express purpose of achieving a 

financial gain.  The District is interested in receiving fair compensation for use of public resources 
employed in creation of such works. 

 
 
Copyright Ownership 
The right to claim copyright shall be determined in the following manner: 
 

 

 

1.  A faculty or staff member may claim the right to copyright any material created outside of the 

faculty or staff member’s employment with the District.  If this creation involves use of District 
equipment or supplies, the faculty or staff member shall retain the right to copyright the material, 
but shall reimburse the District for the cost of production. 

2.  The District may claim the right to copyright material if the District specifically commissioned it, or 

the work is identified as an institutional effort.  Otherwise, the right to copyright the material will 
belong to the faculty or staff member responsible for its creation. 

3.  The District and the faculty or staff member may agree to share the right to copyright materials if 

the work is created by the faculty or staff member and the District contributes services, staff, or 
financial resources necessary for completion.  This will be accomplished through a separate 
contract at the time the project is initiated.  Faculty and staff should consult with their respective 
bargaining agent before entering into the contract. 

 

 
 
Copyright Registration 
Responsibility for official registration of copyright will lie with the owner of the copyright.  In those cases 
where there is shared ownership, the District will be responsible for filing for both parties for registration 
of copyright. 
 
 
 
 

 
 

SL-2001-02.2a 

 

 
Royalties and Distribution Rights 
The ownership of copyright determines royalty distribution rights. 
 

 

rights. 

1.  When faculty or staff members have full copyright ownership, they retain full royalty distribution 

2.  When the District has full copyright ownership, it retains full royalty distribution rights. 
3.  If the District and the faculty or staff member share copyright ownership, royalty distribution rights 

will be as follows: 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

All royalties or profits will be distributed to reimburse the copyright owners for 
documented expenses related to the creation and production of the materials.  
Any remaining royalties or profits will be distributed according to the terms of a 
separate contract. 

 
 
District Use of Copyrighted Materials 
If the District wishes to videotape, broadcast or televise any classroom, laboratory, or other instructional 
activity, it will first obtain the written permission of the faculty or staff member. 
Before the District enters into any agreement for commercial redistribution of an instructional activity 
performed by the faculty or staff member as part of their employment with the District, the District will 
first obtain written permission of the faculty or staff member.  The District will retain all profits from such 
commercial redistribution. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:   
For Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 
By:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Date:    
For Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

By:   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SL-2001-02.2b 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.3 

Cabrillo Community College District  

and the 

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

Section 13.1.1.5.4, Application of State Adjunct-Purpose Funds 

 
The parties agree to the following formula for distribution of State adjunct-purpose funds. 

Article 13, Salary 

 
 

 

 
01-02 

$190,000 
$1,048 AF 
$1,398 ASF 
+% inc. based 

on article 
13.1.1.1 

 

 

 
 
Negotiated increase 
2.03%- through years 
01-02 $0-190,000 SF 
02-04 $0-195,000 SF 
 

 
Contingency Language: 
State Funds for Adjunct-Purposes 
 
 
X = SF > 190,000 < 285,000 
 
 
Y = SF > 285,000 < 385,000 
 
 
Z = SF > 385,000 
 
 
2003-04 
XX = if SF in 01-02 < 190,000  
          > 95,000 in 02-03 
 

 

 

 

State Funds 
Adjunct Faculty 

SF: 
AF: 
ASF:  Academic Specialist Faculty 

 
 
 
 
Date:   
 
 
By:   
For Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

02-03 

03-04 

$95,000 

$100,000 

 

? 
? 

 

? 
? 

 

 

 

 

$190,000 + X 

 

95,000 - X 

 

$100,000 

 

285,000 + Y 

 

385,000 + Z 

 

 

 

100,000 - Y 

 

 

190,000 

 

95,000 + XX 

 

100,000 - XX 

 

 
 

 

 
 

Date:    

 

 

 

 

 

By:   
For Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

 

 

 

 

 

SL-2001-02.3 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.4 

Cabrillo Community College District  

and the 

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

Board Policy and Administrative Regulation 4340 

Computer and Network Usage 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
The parties agree to the attached Board Policy and Administrative Regulation 4340 pertaining to 
Computer and Network Usage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:   
 
 
By:   
For Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

By:   
For Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

Date:    

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SL-2001-02.4a 

 

 

 

BP 4340 

COMPUTER AND NETWORK USAGE POLICY 

 
It is the policy of the Cabrillo Community College District that use of computing and networking resources at 
Cabrillo College is primarily for purposes related to the institution's mission of education and public service.  All 
users of the network and computer resources have a responsibility not to compromise computer and network 
function and to respect the rights of others. 

 
 

Users of College information resources must respect copyrights and licenses, respect the integrity of computer-
based information resources, refrain from seeking to gain unauthorized access, respect the rights of other computer 
users, and respect existing laws regarding the use of college resources for political, personal and commercial use. 

 
 

The confidentiality of electronic resources cannot be assured, but the College recognizes that employees have a 
substantial interest in privacy.  Such confidentiality may be compromised by applicability of law or administrative 
regulation supporting this policy, by unintended redistribution, or because of inadequacy of current technologies to 
protect against unauthorized access.  Computer and network use policies at this institution supplement but do not 
replace existing state and federal laws and regulations regarding use of electronic resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SL-2001-02.4b 

 

COMPUTER AND NETWORK USAGE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATION 

I.  SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY 

AR 4340 

  A.  College System 
  

 

The Cabrillo College Computer and Network systems are the sole property of Cabrillo College. They 
may not be used by any person without the proper authorization of the College, and they are to be used 
primarily for College business and educational purposes. 

  B.  Applicability 
 

 

This regulation is applicable to all College students, faculty and staff and to others using Cabrillo 
College information resources. Users who are accessing Cabrillo College electronic communication 
resources from off-campus sites are responsible for obeying the regulation. This regulation refers to 
all College electronic information resources whether individually controlled or shared, stand-alone or 
networked. It applies to all computer and computer communication facilities owned, leased, operated, 
or contracted by the College. This includes personal computers, workstations, mainframes, 
minicomputers, and associated peripherals, software and information resources, regardless of whether 
used for administration, research, teaching or other purposes. 

  C.  Conditions of Use 
 

 

Individual units within the College may define additional conditions of use for information resources 
under their control. These statements must be consistent with this overall regulation but may provide 
additional detail guidelines and/or restrictions. 

  D.  Enforcement of Policy 
 

 

This regulation exists within the framework of the College Board of Trustees’ policies and State and 
Federal laws. A user of College information resources who is found to have violated any of these 
policies may be subject to disciplinary action including but not limited to loss of information 
resources privileges; disciplinary suspension or termination from employment or expulsion; and/or 
civil or criminal legal action. 

 
  II.  POLICIES 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

  A.  Copyrights and licenses 
 

Computer users must respect copyrights and licenses to software and other online information. 

(1)  Copying - Software protected by copyright may not be copied except as expressly permitted by 
the owner of the copyright or otherwise permitted by copyright law. Protected software may not 
be copied into, from, or by any College facility or system, except pursuant to a valid license or as 
otherwise permitted by copyright law. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)  Number of Simultaneous Users - The number and distribution of copies must be handled in such 

a way that the number of simultaneous users does not exceed the number of original copies 
purchased unless otherwise stipulated in the purchase contract. 

(3)  Copyrights - In addition to software all other copyrighted information (text, images, icons, 

programs, etc.) retrieved from computer, network or Internet resources must be used in 
conformance with applicable copyright and other law. Copied material must be properly 
attributed. 

(4)  Plagiarism of computer information is prohibited in the same way that plagiarism of any other 

protected work is prohibited. 

SL-2001-02.4c 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

  B.  Integrity of Information Resources 
 

 

Computer users must respect the integrity of computer-based information resources. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1)  Modification or Removal of Equipment - Computer users must not attempt to modify or remove 

computer equipment, software, or peripherals that are owned or housed by Cabrillo College 
without authorization from systems administrators (Computing Resources or unit administrator) 
at Cabrillo College. 

(2)  Unauthorized Use - Computer users must not interfere with others' access and use of College 

computers. This may include but is not limited to: the sending of chain letters, either locally or 
off campus; printing excess copies of documents, files, data, or programs, deliberately running 
programs that intentionally damage or slow down the college network; unauthorized 
modification of system setups, operating systems, or disk partitions; attempting to crash or tie up 
a College computer or network; and damaging or vandalizing College computing facilities, 
equipment, software or computer files. 

(3)  Unauthorized Programs - Computer users must not intentionally develop or use programs which 

disrupt other computer users or which access private or restricted portions of the system or 
which damage the software or hardware components of the system. Computer users must not use 
programs or utilities which interfere with other computer users or which modify normally 
protected or restricted portions of the system or user accounts. 

  C.  Unauthorized Access 
 

 

Computer users must not seek to gain unauthorized access to information resources and must not 
assist any other persons to gain unauthorized access. 

     

(1)  Abuse of Computing Privileges - When using College information resources, users must not 

access computers, computer software, computer data or information, or networks without proper 
authorization, or intentionally enable others to do so, regardless of whether the computer, 
software, data, information, or network in question is owned by the College. For example, abuse 
of the networks to which the College belongs or the computers at other sites connected to those 
networks will be treated as an abuse of College computing privileges. 

  

 

 

(2)  Reporting  Problems  -  Any  irregularities  discovered  in  user  accounts  or  system  security  must  be 
reported  promptly  to  the  Director  of  Computing  Resources  or  one  of  the  Computing  Resources 
Managers so that steps can be taken to investigate and solve the problem. 

 

 

 

 

(3)  Password Protection - Cabrillo computer users with password-protected accounts may not 

disclose the password or otherwise make the account available to others without permission of 
the user’s supervising administrator and notification to the Manager, Technology Services, 
Computing Resources Department. 

(4)  System Security – Screening of system-wide incoming electronic information solely for the 

purpose of system security, i.e., virus protection, may be performed as needed. 

  D.  Usage 
 
 

 
 

Computer users must respect the rights of other computer users and adhere to all applicable laws. 
(1)  Messages and Images - Users may not use College electronic communication facilities to send or 
intentionally access fraudulent, harassing, obscene, or threatening messages that are a violation 
of applicable federal or state law. College policies prohibit the unauthorized release of 
confidential information.   

 

 

(2)  Information Belonging to Others - Users must not intentionally seek or provide information on, 
obtain copies of, or modify data files, programs, or passwords belonging to other users, without 
the permission of those other users. 

SL-2001-02.4d 

 

 

 

 

(3)  Rights of Individuals – Users must not release any individual's (student, faculty, and staff) 

personal electronic information to anyone without appropriate authorization. 

(4)  User identification - Users of College information resources shall not send communications or 

messages anonymously or without accurately identifying the user’s originating account or 
station. 

  E.  Political, Personal and Commercial Use 
 

 

The College is a non-profit tax-exempt organization and, as such, is subject to specific federal, state 
and local laws regarding sources of income, political activities, use of public property and similar 
matters. 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

(1)  Political Use - College information resources must not be used for support of partisan political 

activities where prohibited by federal or state laws. 

(2)  Personal Use - College electronic resources may be used for incidental personal purposes 
provided that, in addition to the foregoing constraints and conditions, such use does not: 
(i)  directly or indirectly interfere with the College operation of computing facilities or 

 

electronic mail services; 

 
 

(ii)  burden the College with noticeable incremental cost; or 
(iii)  interfere with the email user’s employment or other obligations to the College. 

(3)  Commercial Use - College information resources should not be used for non-college commercial 

purposes.  

  F.  Nondiscrimination 
 

 

All users have the right to be free from any conduct connected with the use of Cabrillo College 
network and computer resources, which discriminates against any person on the basis of race, color, 
national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, or disability. 

  G.  Information Regarding Access and Disclosure 
 

 

Cabrillo College recognizes that employees have a substantial interest in, and reasonable expectations 
of, privacy with regard to the electronic mail messages they send or receive, even when those 
messages involve only college business, and the electronic information resources used are in the 
course of their employment. 

 

  

  

 

 

 

  

 

Users of the computing resources at Cabrillo College must be aware of possible unintended 
communications disclosure. In many cases, information entered on or transmitted via computer and 
communications systems may be retrieved, even if a user has deleted such information. 

(1)  Cabrillo  College  reserves  the  right  to  access  and  disclose  the  contents  of  employee  electronic 
information resources, but will do so only when it has a legal need to do so.  Cabrillo College will 
not monitor electronic mail messages.  However, Cabrillo College reserves the right to disclose any 
electronic mail message and/or other electronic information as required by law. 

 

 

In  the  event  of  an  emergency,  such  as  a  serious  illness  or  injury,  it  may  be  determined  by  the 
supervising  administrator  that  access  to  an  employee’s  electronic  information  resources  is 
necessary to conduct College business.  The supervising administrator will make every effort to 
obtain  the  employee’s  permission  to  access  the  electronic  information.    If  this  determination  is 
made and the College cannot obtain the employee’s consent, at least two administrators/managers 
must review and approve this access.  Any access undertaken without such approval is a breach of 
Cabrillo College policy for which employees will be disciplined.  

An employee is prohibited from violating the privacy of others, i.e., electronic snooping. 

SL-2001-02.4e 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

  

 

(2)  Incoming electronic mail that has been “malformed” and/or corrupted in transmission that cannot be 
delivered  by  the  system  may  be  opened  by  the  mail  administrator  (a  designated  staff  person  in 
Computing  Resources).    The  mail  administrator  will  attempt  to  identify  the  intended  recipient, 
cause  the  mail  to  be  delivered,  and  notify  the  recipient  that  the  message  had  to  be  opened  for 
delivery. 

SL-2001-02.4f 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.5 

Cabrillo Community College District  

and the 

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

 

 

 

Article 11, Workload, Lab Hours 

 

 

 

 
May 18, 1995 
 
There  are  classes  which  require  students  to  work  in  a  computer  lab  as  part  of  their  instruction.    When  this 
laboratory  work  is  offered  in  a  teaching  lab  at  a  scheduled  time  and  place,  the  instructor  of  the  class  is 
compensated at .75 teaching unit per hour of lab. 
When this instruction is accomplished in an open computing laboratory (to be arranged), the instructor usually is 
compensated at .5 teaching unit per hour.  If this instructor also teaches the lecture portion of a computing class, 
s/he will be compensated at a rate of .75 teaching unit per hour for the number of "to be arranged" hours listed in 
the schedule as being associated with the lecture.  The remainder of the hours assigned to the computing lab will 
be compensated at a rate of .5 teaching unit per hour. 
There will be an increase of 9.625 units a semester assigned to the computing lab. 
This agreement by the Cabrillo College District and the Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers will become 
effective for the fall semester of 1995 and will be incorporated in the workload article of the contract at its next 
printing. 
 
 
 
August 13, 2001 
 
This agreement terminated effective the end of the 2000-01 academic year, except for Gary Marcoccia 
and Jo-Ann Panzardi, who are grandparented into this provision.  There are no other exceptions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

SL-2001-02.5 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.6 

Cabrillo Community College District  

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

and the 

 

 

 

SL-2001-02.6a 

State Funds for Part-Time Faculty Compensation 

In May of 2001, CCFT and the District reached a tentative agreement on a three-year contract,  
2001-04.  The CCFT membership ratified the negotiated agreement on June 4, 2001 and the Governing 
Board approved the agreement on June 4, 2001.  On July 26, 2001, the 2001-02 State Budget for 
Community Colleges was signed.  The State Budget included $57 million to allow districts to increase 
compensation for part-time faculty.  Although the Department of Finance has committed to the $57 
million as ongoing funding, the State Budget funded this augmentation using one-time Proposition 98 
“Reversion Account” funds.  The purpose of this agreement is to define the compensation program for the 
life of the contract in the event the State funding for part-time faculty is not ongoing. 
 
1. 

In 2001-02, the District will receive part-time faculty compensation and will distribute these funds as 
follows: 
a.  In accordance with Article 13.1.1.5.1, $552,000 has been applied on the adjunct and academic 

specialist salary schedules as per attachments A and B to this side letter. 

b.  If the District receives more than $552,000, the amount in excess of $552,000 will increase the 

District’s participation in the annual amount available for the adjunct benefits according to Article 
14.4.4 in fiscal year 2002-03 only. 

c.  All 2000-01 salary schedules shall be increased 8% according to Article 13.1.1.1.1. 

In 2002-03 and 2003-04 fiscal years: 
a.  If the District receives $190,000 or more from the State Adopted Budget for Community Colleges 

 

for part-time faculty compensation, then the negotiated increase of 4 % in 2002-03 and 3.5% in 
2003-04 will be applied to the current 2001-02 salary schedules. 

b.  If the District receives less than $190,000 from the State Adopted Budget for Community Colleges 

for part-time faculty compensation, then the 2000-01 salary schedules shall be recalculated to be 
increased by 7% plus that fraction of 1% which is equal to the amount of state funds received for 
part-time faculty compensation divided by $190,000 to establish the 2001-02 salary schedule.  The 
negotiated increase of 4% in 2002-03 and 3.5% in 2003-04 will be applied to these recalculated 
2001-02 salary schedules. 

c.  If the District receives no funding from the State Adopted Budget for Community Colleges for 

part-time faculty compensation, then the 2000-01 salary schedule shall be recalculated to be 
increased by 7% to establish the 2001-02 salary schedules and the negotiated increase of 4% in 
2002-03 and 3.5% in 2003-04 will be applied to these recalculated 2001-02 salary schedules. 

 

 
3.  Article 13.1.1.5.   Adjunct Salary Schedule and Adjunct Academic Specialist Salary Schedule Cap: 
 
 

a.  Article 13.1.1.5.1 reworded. 
  State funds received in 2001-02 for part-time faculty compensation shall be applied toward adjunct 
and adjunct academic specialist salary schedules and adjunct fringe benefits according to 1a and 1b 
above. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
2. 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

b.  During 2002-03 and 2003-04: 
  1.  If the District receives an amount equal to the funds received from the State Budget for part-

time faculty compensation in 2001-02, then all funds will be applied toward the elimination of 
the salary cap on the adjunct and academic specialist salary schedules. 

  2.  If the District receives less funds from the State Budget for part-time faculty compensation than 
it received in 2001-02, then the salary cap will be revised accordingly to a lower amount.  In any 
event, this revised salary cap will go not lower than the amount stated in 13.1.1.5.3. 

  3.  If the District receives more funds from the State Budget for part-time faculty compensation 

than it received in 2001-02, then the salary cap will be increased accordingly. 

 

 
 

Date:    

 

 

 

 

 

By:   
For Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No change. 

No change. 

No change. 

e.  Article 13.1.1.5.4 

d.  Article 13.1.1.5.3 

c.  Article 13.1.1.5.2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:   
 
 
By:   
For Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

SL-2001-02.6b 

 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.7 

Cabrillo Community College District  

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

and the 

 

 

 
 

Preretirement Program 

In accordance with the requirements of the Ed Code and the Government Code, CCFT and the District agree 
to the following regarding the Preretirement Program contract language: 
 

Article 18.5.3, Length of participation in the preretirement program shall not exceed ten 
(10) years as specified in Ed Code 87483 for employees subject to Section 22713 of the 
Government  Code  and  shall  not  exceed  five  (5)  years  for  employees  subject  to  Section 
20815 of the Government Code.  Unit members requesting preretirement must have been 
employed  full-time  at  a  regular  contract  of  60%  or  more,  in  an  academic  position  or  a 
position requiring certification qualifications, or both, for at least ten (10) years, including 
the immediately preceding five (5) years.  Sabbatical leave or other approved leaves shall 
not be considered to be a break in service.  The period of part-time employment pursuant 
to this policy shall not extend beyond the end of the school year in which the unit member 
reaches her/his seventieth (70th) birthday. 

 
Unit members interested in the Preretirement Program are encouraged to review the specific program 
requirements with the State Teachers Retirement System. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:   
 
 
By:   
For Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

By:   
For Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

Date:    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SL-2001-02.7 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.8 

Article 14, Benefit Eligibility 

Cabrillo Community College District  

and the 

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Not  withstanding  the  provisions  of  Article  14.4.3,  this  agreement  is  to  help  clarify  benefit 
eligibility  for  employees  who  have  met  the  initial  eligibility  criteria  but  have  an  annual 
workload of less than 15 units. 
 
In any given academic year, an employee who is enrolled in a district administered medical 
plan will lose eligibility for the district-paid benefit stipend for the following academic year if 
his/her annual workload is less than 15 units in the current academic year.   
 
Such an employee may continue his/her benefits by electing COBRA coverage and self-paying 
the cost of the premiums.  Benefit eligibility will be reinstated the following academic year if 
the workload for the current academic year is greater than or equal to 15 units, otherwise the 
adjunct employee must reestablish initial eligibility as defined in Article 14.4.1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:   
 
 
By:   
For Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 
 

By:   
For Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

Date:    

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Side Letter of Agreement 2001-02.9 

Cabrillo Community College District  

and the 

Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

Article 13, Initial Salary Placement 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

CCFT  and  the  District  agree  to  the  following  modifications  of  the  2001-04  contract  as  it 
relates to the following: 
 
A. In Article 13.4.1.6, there is current language which addresses initial salary placement for 

faculty who are hired with a doctorate degree but do not possess a Master’s degree. 

 
B.  Additionally,  when  faculty  are  hired  by  the  District  and  have  completed  a  Bachelor’s 
degree  but  do  not  possess  a  Master’s  degree  and  are  currently  enrolled  in  a  doctorate 
program  and  have  successfully  completed  a  minimum  of  thirty  (30)  graduate  level 
semester units, the faculty member will be eligible to receive an initial salary placement in 
Class  2  through  6,  based  on  the  completion  of  upper  division  or  graduate  course  work 
earned subsequent to attainment of a Bachelor’s degree in a regularly accredited college 
or university for salary schedule class purposes. 

 
C.  Faculty must submit original transcripts and documents in accordance with the District’s 

practice. 

 
D.  This  side  letter  will  supersede  the  initial  salary  placement  provisions  defined  in  Article 

13.4.1 (Placement in Salary Schedule Class) as described in Item B above. 

 
E.  The  equivalency  process  to  determine  minimum  qualifications  of  a  faculty  instructor  is 

separate and distinct from the salary placement process defined in A, B, C, and D above. 

 
F.  This new process will be effective with the beginning of the Fall 2001 semester. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:   
 
 
By:   
For Cabrillo Community College District 
 
 
 

By:   
For Cabrillo College Federation of Teachers 

Date:    

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

